Ammonia (NH3) electrosynthesis gains significant attention as NH3 is essentially important for fertilizer production and fuel utilization. However, electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) remains a great challenge because of low activity and poor selectivity. Herein, a new class of atomically dispersed Ni site electrocatalyst is reported, which exhibits the optimal NH3 yield of 115 mu g cm(-2) h(-1) at -0.8 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) under neutral conditions. High faradic efficiency of 21 +/- 1.9% is achieved at -0.2 V versus RHE under alkaline conditions, although the ammonia yield is lower. The Ni sites are stabilized with nitrogen, which is verified by advanced X-ray absorption spectroscopy and electron microscopy. Density functional theory calculations provide insightful understanding on the possible structure of active sites, relevant reaction pathways, and confirm that the Ni-N-3 sites are responsible for the experimentally observed activity and selectivity. Extensive controls strongly suggest that the atomically dispersed NiN3 site-rich catalyst provides more intrinsically active sites than those in N-doped carbon, instead of possible environmental contamination. This work further indicates that single-metal site catalysts with optimal nitrogen coordination is very promising for NRR and indeed improves the scaling relationship of transition metals.
Electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen (N-2) at ambient conditions is an alternative strategy to produce ammonia (NH3) to complement the commonly applied Haber-Bosch process. However, the achievement of high Faradaic efficiencies and high NH3 yield is still challenging. Here, Au single sites stabilized on N-doped porous and highly oxidizing (noble) carbon catalysts showing excellent performance in N-2 electroreduction are reported. At a potential of -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, a stable NH3 yield of 2.32 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) is produced at a Faradaic efficiency of 12.3%. Besides, there is no notable fluctuation of Faradaic efficiency and NH3 yield in six-cycle test, which indicates good stability. This work opens up new insights to improve N-2 fixation performance by introducing catalytically active single sites into noble carbon materials for N-2 electroreduction.
Nowadays, most reported ammonia (NH3) yields and Faradaic efficiency (FE) of electrocatalysts are very low in the field of electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reactions (NRR). Here, we are reported center dot H for the first time in the field of electrocatalytic NRR, which are generated by sulfite (SO32-) and H2O in electrolyte solutions upon exposure to UV light. The high NH3 yields can achieve 100.7 lg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1), while stability can achieve 64 h and the FE can achieve 27.1% at -0.3 V (vs. RHE) with UV irradiation. In situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), electron spin resonance (ESR), density functional theory (DFT) and H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) tests showed that the center dot H effectively lowered the reaction energy barrier at each step of the NRR process and inhibits the occurrence of competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). This explores the path and provides ideas for the field of electrocatalysis involving water. (C) 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The electrocatalysis conversion of N-2 to NH3 at ambient conditions is promising for achieving clean and sustainable NH3 production with low energy consumption. However, this process suffers from the low yield rate of NH3 and low Faradaic efficiency (FE) by the previously reported electrocatalysts. In this work, a nanocomposite of nickel oxide coated with nitrogen-doped porous carbon distributed on graphite paper (N-C@NiO/GP) with remarkable electrocatalytic activity for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is reported. N-C@NiO/GP attains an impressive Faradaic efficiency of 30.43% for NH3 production, and the NH3 yield rate reaches 14.022 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) (1.15 X 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2)) at -0.2 V vs the reversible hydrogen electrode. The composite also shows excellent electrocatalytic activity and structure stability with an electrocatalytic period of up to 20 h. When the N-15(2) is used as the feeding gas, the produced species are (NH4+)-N-14 and (NH4+)-N-15, which suggests that the reaction follows a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. The synthesized NH3 is determined from the introduced N-2 as indicated by no obvious change in N/Ni ratio. The microstructure before and after the durability test is similar and the catalytic performance during the 2 h NRR process, which is repeated six times, is stable. This work not only exploits an excellent electrocatalyst for N-2 fixation to NH3 but also provides a direction for the inexpensive preparation of highly active and stable transition metal oxide catalysts.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction (NRR) relies on the development of highly efficient electrocatalysts and electrocatalysis systems. Herein, we report a non-loading electrocatalysis system, where the electrocatalysts are dispersed in aqueous solution rather than loading them on electrode substrates. The system consists of aqueous Ag nanodots (AgNDs) as the catalyst and metallic titanium (Ti) mesh as the current collector for electrocatalytic NRR. The as-synthesized AgNDs, homogeneously dispersed in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution (pH = 10.5), can achieve an NH3 yield rate of 600.4 +/- 23.0 mu g h(-1) mg(Ag)(-1) with a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 10.1 +/- 0.7% at -0.25 V (vs. RHE). The FE can be further improved to be 20.1 +/- 0.9% at the same potential by using Ti mesh modified with oxygen vacancy-rich TiO2 nanosheets as the current collector. Utilizing the aqueous AgNDs catalyst, a Ti plate based two-electrode configured flow-type electrochemical reactor was developed to achieve an NH3 yield rate of 804.5 +/- 30.6 mu g h(-1) mg(Ag)(-1) with a FE of 8.2 +/- 0.5% at a voltage of -1.8 V. The designed non-loading electrocatalysis system takes full advantage of the AgNDs' active sites for N-2 adsorption and activation, following an alternative hydrogenation mechanism revealed by theoretical calculations.
Nitrogen reduction electrocatalysts are highly attractive for catalytic science. However, most electrocatalysts are limited by their low faradaic efficiency, poor ammonia yield, and tedious and costly catalyst synthesis process. In this work, Fe-based oxide composite nanoparticles with steady chemical states are prepared by a single-step green procedure under ambient conditions. The resulting Fe-Fe3O4 demonstrates remarkable activity and selectivity for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) with the highest faradaic efficiency of 53.2 +/- 1.8 % and NH3 yield rate of 24.6 +/- 0.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.4 V (vs. RHE) in 0.1 m Na2SO4 electrolyte. Characterization experiments and theoretical calculation reveal that Fe-Fe3O4 exhibits significantly enhanced charge transfer capability and suppresses the competitive HER process.
Seeking a breakthrough in the development of efficient nitrogen fixation catalysts has become the frontier of energy and chemical conversion schemes. Here, we report that the MXene Ti3C2 can serve as a promising catalyst for the electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. The electrocatalytic performance of Ti3C2 can be further optimized through surface engineering. Specifically, Ti3C2 with the increased surface hydroxyl moieties demonstrates enhanced production of NH3 with a yield rate of 1.71 mu g h(-1) cm(-2), a Faradaic efficiency of 7.01% at 0.2 V vs. RHE at 20 degrees C and an even higher yield rate of 12.46 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) together with a Faradaic efficiency of 9.03% at 0.2 V vs. RHE at 60 degrees C. The detailed electrochemical analysis suggests that the surface hydroxyl modification can effectively facilitate the electron transfer, surface adsorption and activation of dinitrogen. Our work sheds light on the development of efficient NRR catalysts based on earth-abundant elements.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction has recently received increasing attention due to its ability to synthesize ammonia under ambient conditions. However, the low ammonia yields and Faradaic efficiency hinder its further development, which necessitates the use of high-performance catalysts. Hence, in this study, a self-supporting carbon mat with FeNi-doped Co catalysts (Fe1Ni0.2Co145) fabricated by electro-spinning was used as an electrode (FeNi-Co@CM) for electrochemical ammonia synthesis. The electro-chemical performance of the FeNi-Co@CM electrode is evaluated in a three-electrode setup with FeNi-Co@CM as working electrode, a platinum mesh as counter electrode, and a Ag/AgCl electrode as reference electrode. The experimental investigations produce an ammonia yield rate of 27.9 mu g h & minus;1 mg & minus;1 and a Faradaic efficiency of 1.52 % in 1.0 M KOH, which is higher than most of the reported data where iron-group-based electrocatalysts were employed. The verification results from multiple sets of control experiments indicated that the ammonia detected is generated by the nitrogen reduction reaction rather than the contaminants in the surrounding environment. In addition, the results of the stability test show that the FeNi-Co@CM electrode can maintain a high level of ammonia production for more than ten cycles. The working mechanism of nitrogen reduction reaction based on FeNi-Co@CM electrode is also discussed at various scales, including the electrode scale, the catalyst scale, and the atomic scale. This study therefore provides an in-depth understanding of the nitrogen reduction reaction from various perspectives, such as mass transport, reaction interfaces, and reaction intermediates. (c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Superscript/Subscript Available
The design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts for mild electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is particularly desirable and remains greatly challenging due to the unfavorably low ammonia yield rate and Faradaic efficiency (FE), which comes from the difficulty in making nitrogen activation superior to competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, we report a well-designed two-dimensional nanosheet-like Fe-tetrapyridophenazine (Fe-TPPHZ) catalyst for ambient NRR process, which was facially prepared by coordinating Fe ions with TPPHZ ligand. The Fe-TPPHZ catalyst shows a remarkable NRR activity at ambient conditions with a high NH3 yield rate of 29.07 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and an outstanding FE of 11.5% at - 0.3 V vs. RHE. An ammonia yield rate of 21.86 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) is observed after 100 consecutive cycles, with a retention rate of 75.2%. This work will provide a rational design idea to use non-precious metal-based complex as highly effective electrocatalysts for NRR test. [GRAPHICS] .
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction is an economical, efficient and eco-friendly method for ammonia synthesis. However, the faraday efficiency is very low (less than 10%) in most reported researches. In this work, zero valent iron particles are dispersed on the surface of hollow carbon spheres (Fe-HCS) as electrocatalyst. As reductant and electron donor, zero valent iron can promote the transfer of electrons to the antibonding orbitals of N2, thereby enhancing nitrogen adsorption. Meanwhile, Fe-HCS exerts extraordinary electron transfer and faraday efficiency owing to superior electrical conductivity. Especially, Fe-2HCS-8 displays fantastic NH3 yield of 64.76 mu g h-1 mg -1 cat and faraday efficiency of 40.81%, which overwhelmingly exceeds most reported iron-based catalysts. And the excellent energy output of power density (155.52 mu W cm-2) is achieved by Zn-N2 battery. This work offers guidance for the reasonably design of zero valent metal catalysts and technology assistance toward electro-chemical nitrogen fixation and energy production.
A catalytic system based on iron phosphide (Fe2P) has exhibited electrocatalytic activity toward N2-reduction reaction in alkaline medium (0.5 mol dm-3 NaOH). Based on voltammetric stripping-type electroanalytical measurements, Raman spectroscopic and spectrophotometric data, it can be stated that the Fe2P catalyst facil-itates conversion of N2 to NH3, and the process is fairly selective with respect to the competing hydrogen evo-lution. A series of diagnostic electrocatalytic experiments (utilizing platinum nanoparticles and HKUST-1) have been proposed and performed to control purity of nitrogen gas and to probe presence of potential contaminants such as ammonia, nitrogen oxo-species and oxygen. On the whole, the results are consistent with the view that the interfacial reduced-iron (Fe0) centers, while existing within the network of P sites, induce activation and reduction of nitrogen, parallel to the water splitting (reduction) to hydrogen. It is apparent from Tafel plots and impedance measurements that mechanism and dynamics of nitrogen reduction depends on the applied elec-troreduction potential. The catalytic system exhibits certain tolerance with respect to the competitive hydrogen evolution and gives (during electrolysis at-0.4 V vs. RHE) the Faradaic efficiency, namely, the selectivity (molar) efficiency, toward production of NH3 on the level of 60%. Under such conditions, the NH3-yield rate has been found to be equal to 7.5 mu mol cm-2 h-1 (21 mu mol m-2 s- 1). By referring to classic concepts of electrochemical kinetic analysis, the rate constant in heterogeneous units has been found to be on the moderate level of 1-2*10-4 cm s-1 (at-0.4 V). The above mentioned iron-phosphorous active sites, which are generated on surfaces of Fe2P particles, have also been demonstrated to exhibit strong catalytic properties during reductions of other elec-trochemically inert reactants, such as oxygen, nitrites and nitrates.
The simultaneous achievement of both high ammonia yield and Faradaic efficiency in electrochemical nitrogen reduction is a long-sought-after goal. However, due to the strong competing hydrogen evolution and extremely low solubility of N-2 in aqueous systems, thermodynamic modulation at the catalyst level is insufficient, leaving the current performance still far from practical application. Here, we rationally control the diffusion of the reactants to obtain suppressed proton supply and greatly enhanced nitrogen flux using proton-filtering covalent organic frameworks, forcing a highly selective and active nitrogen reduction. In this proof-of-concept system, we achieved a high performance in the electrochemical ammonia synthesis (ammonia yield rate 287.2 +/- 10.0 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)Faradaic efficiency 54.5 +/- 1.1%) using a traditional carbon-based catalyst. The proposed strategy successfully optimizes the mass transfer that greatly facilitates nitrogen reduction, providing powerful guidelines for achieving green ammonia production at a more practical level.
NH3 plays an important role in the agroindustry, but its existing preparation processes generate a lot of pollution, which is not conducive to sustainable development. Electrochemical nitrogen reduction is a clean process for preparing ammonia, it relies on a catalyst with excellent performance. Here, we studied a vanadium tetroxide nanowire electrocatalyst supported on reduced graphene oxide, which has excellent performance in the production of NH3. In the 0.1 mol L-1 Na2SO4 electrolyte, the highest NH3 yield of catalyst achieved 24.75 mu g h(-1)center dot mg(cat.)(-1) at - 0.3 V (V vs. RHE) potential, and the Faraday efficiency was up to 79% at - 0.2 V (V vs. RHE). This study provides a basis for subsequent improvement of catalyst performance.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction offers a dream way to produce active nitrogen for agriculture and highenergy-dense carbon-free fuels for our blue planet. However, it suffers from extremely low faradaic efficiency values, because the conversion rate is greatly limited by the competing hydrogen reduction reaction, seeking for a new strategy to solve the bottleneck problem is highly desirable. Herein, it is found that H+ ions transfer rate can be linearly regulated by tuning the pore numbers of the membrane in an H-type cell, while the Faradaic efficiency can be continuously regulated in the same way. Meanwhile, a physical model has been constructed to reveal the changing mechanism of the Faradaic efficiency. The theoretical results well agree with the experimental ones obtained by the synthetic plasma-enhanced bimetallic catalyst (FeAg nanoclusters dispersed on Si nanowire). In this study we achieved a continuous enhancement of the Faradaic efficiency from 9.04 % to 41.86 %.
The electrochemical reduction of N-2 to produce NH3 at ambient conditions is an effective and sustainable route to store and carry hydrogen, balance the nitrogen cycle, and provide means to produce on-demand fertilizers. The efficient electrosynthesis of NH3 is challenging because of the lower activation of N-2 and higher activity toward the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Here, we propose theory-guided activity descriptors to identify an efficient N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) catalyst, followed by its implementation in a flow-through gas diffusion electrode (GDE) to quantify the effects of pH, cation identity, H2O saturation, and N-2 concentration on the kinetics of the NRR. The identified Cu catalyst with dominant (111) facets electrodeposited on a carbon paper provides optimal active sites to obtain maximum NH3 faradaic efficiency (FE) of 18 +/- 3% at-0.3 V vs RHE and the maximum NH3 current density of 0.25 +/- 0.03 mA cm(-2) (0.86 nmol.cm(-2).s(-1)) at-0.5 V vs RHE in alkaline medium. The electrolyte pH mostly affects the HER by pH-induced binding of *H and reorganization of H2O, which favor the NRR at an optimal pH of 13.5. Increasing the size of monovalent cations stabilizes NRR intermediates and increases the NH3 current density from Li+ to K+. However, increasing the size of the cation from K+ to Rb+ reduces the FE of NRR, which is due to a direct reduction of H2O in the solvation shell of larger cations to produce H-2. Another strategy to improve NH3 FE is to reduce the H2O saturation on the catalyst, which can be achieved by sparging the reactant gas directly through the GDE. Increasing the N-2(g) flow rate not only increases the gas-liquid mass transfer coefficient but also reduces the H2O saturation in the pores of the GDE, which primarily suppresses the HER. The fixed potential DFT calculations reveal an associative distal mechanism for the NRR over Cu(111), where the hydrogenation of *N-2 is the rate-limiting step. This finding also corroborates with the measured reaction order with respect to N-2.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction to ammonia has attracted increasing attention as it is more energy-saving and eco-friendly. For this endeavor, the development of high-efficiency electrocatalysts with excellent selectivity and stability is indispensable to break up the stable covalent triple bond in nitrogen. In this study, we report monodisperse Cu clusters loaded on defective ZrO2 nanofibers for nitrogen reduction under mild conditions. Such an electrocatalyst achieves an NH3 yield rate of 12.13 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1) and an optimal Faradaic efficiency of 13.4% at -0.6 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the N-2 molecule was reduced to NH3 at the Cu active site with an ideal overpotential. Meanwhile, the interaction between bonding and antibonding of the Cu-N bond promotes activation of N-2 and maintains a low desorption barrier.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction under ambient conditions is a promising approach for ammonia synthesis, but it is challenging to develop highly efficient electrocatalysts. In this work, a hybrid of covalent organic framework (COF) and carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are developed for efficient nitrogen electroreduction with a high faradaic efficiency (FE) of 12.7% at 0.0 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a remarkable production rate of ammonia up to 8.56 mu g h(-1) mg cat(-1) at -0.2 V versus RHE. Experiments and theoretical calculations reveal that Ni centers are active sites for NH3 synthesis, while the pi-pi stacking between COF-366-Ni and conductive CNTs scaffold results in the rapid interfacial charge transfer. This investigation provides new insights on the rational design of organic-inorganic porous hybrids for efficient nitrogen conversion and ammonia synthesis at ambient conditions.
Renewable-electricity-driven N-2 reduction is an attractive approach for ambient NH3 synthesis, but active electrocatalysts are needed to enable the N-2 reduction reaction. Monolithic electrodes with active components anchored on conductive supports provide many advantages like structural stability, large surface area, and low electrical resistance. Here, a novel oxidation-etching strategy is proposed to carve the surface of Cu foam into structures of particles, cubes, and sheets for N-2 reduction electrocatalysis. The optimal catalyst achieves a Faradic efficiency as high as 18% at -0.35V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a large NH3 yield of 2.45x10(-10) mols(-1) cm(-1) at -0.40V vs RHE in 0.1 M HCl. Notably, it also shows superior long-term electrochemical durability, with the preservation of electro-activity for at least 20hours.
Fe-enabled high-performance ambient electrochemical N-2 reduction still remains a big challenge. Here, we report the unusual role of phosphorous in modulating the electrochemical N-2 reduction activity of an Fe catalyst. An FeP2 nanoparticle-reduced graphene oxide hybrid (FeP2-rGO) attains a large NH3 yield of 35.26 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) (7.06 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) and a high faradaic efficiency of 21.99% at -0.40 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.5 M LiClO4, outperforming the FeP-rGO hybrid (17.13 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1); 8.57%). Theoretical calculations reveal that FeP2 possesses decreased catalytic activity for the hydrogen evolution reaction, higher N-2 adsorption energy, and a larger number of active sites than FeP.
Enhanced titanocene (Cp2TiCl2) based electrocatalytic system for nitrogen reduction was shown, comprising glassy carbon electrode, high level of the catechol redox mediator, optimized binary THF/MeOH solvent and unique design of the reactor having ammonia permeable membrane at the outlet, which allowed constant nitrogen flow through the working solution during entire electrolysis without risk of evaporation of the solvent. Catalytic activity was observed in the potential range of (-1.5)-(-2.3) V, reaching TON of 2.83%, corresponding to the production of 0.566 mu mol NH3 (9.64 mu g) in 24 h hydrolysis at -2.3 V using 0.02 mmol TiCp2Cl2 (5 mg).
Isolated diatomic Zn-Fe anchored on nitrogen-doped carbon is explored as an efficient and robust electrocatalyst for N(2)reduction in a neutral aqueous electrolyte, delivering a high NH(3)yield rate (30.5 mu g h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1)) and considerable faradaic efficiency (26.5%) at a low overpotential of -300 mV. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the Zn-Fe atomic pairs synergistically favor N(2)activation and reduce the reaction barrier for the rate-limiting step of intermediate *NNH formation.
The catalytic conversion of dinitrogen (N-2) into ammonia under ambient conditions represents one of the Holy Grails in sustainable chemistry. As a potential alternative to the Haber-Bosch process, the electrochemical reduction of N-2 to NH3 is attractive owing to its renewability and flexibility, as well as its sustainability for producing and storing value-added chemicals from the abundant feedstock of water and nitrogen on earth. However, owing to the kinetically complex and energetically challenging N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) process, NRR electrocatalysts with high catalytic activity and high selectivity are rare. In this contribution, as a proof-of-concept, we demonstrate that both the NH3 yield and faradaic efficiency (FE) under ambient conditions can be improved by modification of the hematite nanostructure surface. Introducing more oxygen vacancies to the hematite surface renders an improved performance in NRR, which leads to an average NH3 production rate of 0.46 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and an NH3 FE of 6.04 % at -0.9 V vs. Ag/AgCl in 0.10 m KOH electrolyte. The durability of the electrochemical system was also investigated. A surprisingly high average NH3 production rate of 1.45 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and a NH3 FE of 8.28 % were achieved after the first 1 h chronoamperometry test. This is among the highest FEs reported so far for non-precious-metal catalysts that use a polymer-electrolyte-membrane cell and is much higher than the FE of precious-metal catalysts (e.g., Ru/C) under comparable reaction conditions. However, the NH3 yield and the FE dropped to 0.29 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and 2.74 %, respectively, after 16 h of chronoamperometry tests, which indicates poor durability of the system. Our results demonstrate the important role that the surface states of transition-metal oxides have in promoting electrocatalytic NRR under ambient conditions. This work may spur interest towards the rational design of electrocatalysts as well as electrochemical systems for NRR, with emphasis on the issue of stability.
Reduction of nitrogen (N-2) under ambient conditions and understanding the mechanism have been hugely challenging problems for decades. Herein, we for the first time report that N,P co-doped hierarchical porous carbon (NPC) can serve as an electrocatalyst for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in an acid aqueous solution under ambient conditions. The faradaic efficiency (FE) and yield of production of NH3 on the NPC electrode reached as high as 4.2% and 0.97 g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), respectively. Furthermore, the electrocatalytic NRR mechanism on the NPC electrode was undoubtedly confirmed by electrochemical in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and follows an associative pathway. These results are predicted to offer a new platform in the rational design and synthesis of highly efficient electrocatalysts for the NRR under ambient conditions.
Ammonia, one of the most produced chemicals, is mainly produced by the Haber Bosch process, under hightemperature, high-pressure, and energy-intensive conditions. Therefore, electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction is an attractive alternative method under ambient conditions. In this paper, two-dimensional carbon nanosheets (CNS) are firstly prepared by a modified Hummer method, and then Co and Ni bimetal load on CNS are prepared by a hydrothermal method to investigate their electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) properties. CNS has a porous sheet structure, and the NiCo oxide nanoflower structure with zigzag folding grows on the surface of CNS, which is beneficial to improve the contact area of the catalyst with N2, increasing the number of active sites, and better improve the performance of N2 reduction NH3 synthesis. At -0.34 V, the NH3 yield reaches a maximum of 22.18 mu g center dot h-1 center dot mg-1, and the Faradaic efficiency (FE) is 4.50 %, both of which are about twice as high as that of pure CNS, which is superior to other metal-doped electrocatalysts used for N2 reduction. This study provides an effective method for the design of electrocatalysts with high N2 reduction performance for ammonia synthesis. The catalytic mechanism is further explored by the theoretical calculations of DFT.
NH3 serves as an attractive hydrogen storage medium and a renewable energy sector for a sustainable future. Electrochemical reduction is a feasible ambient reaction to convert N-2 to NH3, while it needs efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) to meet the challenge associated with N-2 activation. In this Letter, we report on our recent experimental finding that the TiO2 nanosheets array on the Ti plate (TiO2/Ti) is effective for electrochemical N-2 conversion to NH3 at ambient conditions. When tested in 0.1 M Na2SO4, such TiO2/Ti attains a high NH3 yield of 9.16 x 10(-11) mol s(-1).cm(-2) with corresponding Faradaic efficiency of 2.50% at -0.7 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode, outperforming most reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts. It also shows excellent selectivity for NH3 formation with high electrochemical stability. The superior NRR activity is due to the enhanced adsorption and activation generated during electrochemical tests. of N-2 by oxygen vacancies in situ generated during electrochemical tests.
An electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction is considered a potential approach for green ammonia production-a zero-carbon fertilizer, fuel, and energy storage for renewable energy. To harness the synergistic properties of perovskites, the inherent dipole moment due to their non-centrosymmetric structure (that facilitates better charge separation), oxygen vacancies, and the presence of Ni metal sites that permit activation and reduction of N-2 efficiently, the NiTiO3-based nanoelectrocatalysts have been synthesized. Further, these catalysts have been modified with ultra-small metal nanocrystal co-catalysts to form heterointerfaces that not only aid to improve the charge separation but also activate N-2 and lower overpotential requirements. The appearance of peaks corresponding to (012), (104), (110), (11-3), (024), (11-6), (018), (027), and (300) confirms the formation of rhombohedral NiTiO3. The shift in the XRD peak corresponding to the (104) plane to a smaller 2 theta value and peak shifting and widening of Raman spectra imply the lattice distortion that signifies the formation of Pd-NiTiO3 and Pt-NiTiO3 heterojunction electrocatalysts with the loadings of 0.4 and 0.3 wt % of Pd and Pt, respectively, as confirmed by ICP-OES analysis. The detailed XPS analysis reveals the presence of Pd (0), Pd (II), and Pt (0), Pt (II) in respective electrocatalysts. The appearance of XPS peaks at 528.7 and 531.1 eV suggests the presence of oxidative oxygen species (O2-/O-) and the presence of oxygen defects due to oxygen vacancy. The detailed nitrogen reduction (NRR) investigation exhibits a 5-fold enhancement in ammonia yield rate (similar to 14.28 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) at -0.003 V vs RHE), a faradic efficiency of 27% (at 0.097 V vs RHE) for Pd-NiTiO3 electrocatalysts than that for bare NiTiO3 (3.08 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)), and 9-folds higher than that of the activity shown by the commercial TiO2 (P-25) (1.52 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)). The formation of ammonia was further confirmed by using isotopic nitrogen as the feeding gas. Furthermore, the highest NRR is observed at lower cathodic potential (-0.003 V vs RHE) in the case of the Pd-NiTiO3 electrocatalyst than that of the Pt-NiTiO3 electrocatalyst (-0.203 V vs RHE), implying significantly reduced overpotential requirement. Such enhanced NRR activity with lower overpotential requirement in the case of the Pd-NiTiO3 electrocatalyst is due to efficient charge separation as shown by the semicircle Nyquist plot, decreased photoluminescence emission intensity, shorter average lifetime (similar to 29 ns) of excitons, appropriate band bending, and improved activation of N-2 by the oxygen vacancies and heterointerface formed between Pd nanocrystals and NiTiO3. Furthermore, no change is observed in the current density, after stabilization in the initial few seconds, even up to 2 h, which signifies that these electrocatalysts are stable. The structural and morphological integrity of the optimized catalyst remained even after the nitrogen reduction reactions, as revealed by no significant change observed in FESEM, elemental mapping, and EDS analysis.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reactions (ENRR) can produce ammonia from nitrogen and water under ambient conditions. Here, we report the morphology-dependent electro-catalytic nitrogen reduction on Ag triangular nanoplates. Boosted by potassium cations, Ag triangular nanoplates with sharp edges exhibit a high faradaic efficiency of 25% with an ammonia yield of 58.5 mg g(Ag)(-1) h(-1) at a low overpotential of -0.25 V vs. RHE. In comparison, rounded Ag nanoparticles mainly enclosed by {111} and {100} surfaces show a much smaller faradaic efficiency of 16% and ammonia yield of 38 mg g(Ag)(-1) h(-1) at a larger overpotential (-0.35 V vs. RHE).
Due to the utilization of renewable energy and proton sources, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction is considered as an efficient, sustainable, and carbon-neutral route to replace the industrial Haber-Bosch process. However, restricted by the highly competitive hydrogen evolution reaction and the highly inert N N bond, electrochemical nitrogen reduction research still faces significant chal- lenges with a Low level of selectivity and activity. Herein, we demonstrate a catalyst (PdCu/TiO2-x) composed of oxygen vacancy-rich TiO2-x nanosheets and PdCu alloy nanopartides by the co-reduction method of metal precursors. Such a catalyst exhibits excellent electrocatalytic performance at room temperature and pressure, with an NH3 yield rate of 8.51 mmol g(cat)(-1) h(-1) and the corresponding faradaic efficiency of 49.09% at -0.1 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode, which are much higher than most reported palladium-based catalysts and their alloy catalysts. Characterization and experimental results confirm that by properly constructing the surface defect and nanoalloy structure, the optimized electronic structure and synergistic effect can not only effectively improve the N-2 adsorption and activation, but also reduce the reaction barrier, resulting in efficient electrocatalytic performance. Meanwhile, the introduction of Cu accelerates the hydrogen desorption, further effectively improving the faradaic efficiency. Overall, we explored the electrocatalytic performance and mechanism of the bimetal alloy catalyst, as well as the optimization strategies for enhancing the nitrogen mass transfer process, providing new insight into the rational design of a highly efficient e-NRR system through tuning of the catalyst and reaction environment.
NH3 is the main product of nitrogen reduction and is not only an indispensable fertilizer component but also a promising clean energy carrier. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) can reduce N2 to NH3 under ambient conditions and is one of the most promising technologies to replace the traditional Haber-Bosch process. The careful choice and design of electrocatalysts are both key to achieving an efficient electrocatalytic reaction. In this study, using density functional theory calculations, the catalytic performance of a series of 3d transition metal (TM = Cr, Mn, Fe, Co) single-atom catalysts supported on C3N (TM@C3N) was systematically investigated. The best NRR performance was achieved for the Fe-C@C3N catalyst, and the reaction follows the enzymatic mechanism. Crucially, at a limiting potential of -0.49 V, the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction was effectively inhibited. Furthermore, the electronic properties of the reaction intermediates and Fe-C@C3N were analyzed to reveal the reasons for its high activity. The results of this study will help us understand the catalytic performance of TM-atom-doped C3N and aid the design of more active C3N-based NRR catalysts.
Ammonia as a chemical substance is closely related to our daily life , its production process has attracted researchers' attention. Due to its high energy consumption , high emission characteristics, the industrial Haber-Bosch process obviously cannot adapt to the sustainable development concept of low-carbon and environmental protection in today's society. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) technology is a promising method of converting unstable electrical energy into fuel for storage at ambient conditions. Here, a bimetallic catalyst, Co-Ni-S/Ni foam, is reported as an electro-catalyst to realize N-2 reduction. The in-situ growth strategy promotes the effective combination of Co9S8 and Ni3S2 on the Ni foam without any adhesive. The active centers of the bimetallic Co and Ni reasonably regulate the adsorption of various complex intermediates in the N-2 activation process, so that the Co-Ni-S/Ni foam has good N-2 activity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, the designed electrocatalyst achieved an NH3 yield of 5.05 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at -0.6 V vs. RHE and an optimum Faradaic efficiency of 6.23% with good electrochemical stability and selectivity. Besides, the electrocatalytic sites were also evaluated in conjunction with density functional theory. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Achieving high ammonia yield and Faraday efficiency is a long-sought-after goal in electrochemical N2 fixation. Yet, the competitive hydrogen evolution in nitrogen reduction process and the low local concentration of nitrogen on the working electrode still limited the electrocatalytic performance. In the present contribution, a FeMoSe2 nanosheet functioned with C18-thiol as a nano-hydrophobic surface was rationally constructed, which efficiently facilitated the three-phase contact of gas (N2), liquid (H2O electrolyte), and solid (electrocatalyst). The fabrication of modified hydrophobic surface not only overcame the mass transfer limitation of N2 and increased the local concentration of N2 molecules on the catalyst, but also reduced the proton contact with electrocatalyst to inhibit HER. The three-phase electrocatalytic system achieved a high NH3 yield of 34.75 & mu;g h-1 mg- 1 and outstanding Faraday efficiency of 23.31%. The adsorption and activation processes during NRR process were systematically investigated by the combination of experimental results and density function theory (DFT) simulations.
The fixing of N-2 to NH3 is challenging due to the inertness of the N equivalent to N bond. Commercially, ammonia production depends on the energy-consuming Haber-Bosch (H-B) process, which emits CO2 while using fossil fuels as the sources of hydrogen and energy. An alternative method for NH3 production is the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) process as it is powered by renewable energy sources. Here, we report a tiara-like nickel-thiolate cluster, [Ni-6(PET)(12)] (where, PET=2-phenylethanethiol)] as an efficient electro-catalyst for the electrochemical NRR at ambient conditions. Ammonia (NH3: 16.2 +/- 0.8 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) was the only nitrogenous product over the potential of -2.3 V vs. F-c(+)/F-c with a Faradaic efficiency of 25%+/- 1.7. Based on theoretical calculations, NRR by [Ni-6(PET)(12)] proceeds through both the distal and alternating pathways with an onset potential of -1.84 V vs. RHE (i.e., -2.46 V vs. F-c(+)/F-c) which corroborates with the experimental findings.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction is a significant alternative route for synthesizing ammonia, but constructing efficient catalysts for electrochemical nitrogen fixation still faces tough challenges. In this work, Cu3P@NC (NC: nitrogen-doped carbon) nanosheets were prepared via the low-temperature pyrolysis-phosphating of Cu-MOFs. When applied to the nitrogen reduction reaction, Cu3P@NC exhibited a high ammonia yield rate of 10.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.3 V (vs. RHE) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 6.3% at -0.1 V (vs. RHE). The outstanding performance was attributed to the large electrochemical surface area and the defects induced as a result of N doping, which helped enhance N-2 adsorption. This work provides a novel strategy for preparing N-doped carbon materials for wide-ranging applications.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction offers an environmentally benign and sustainable approach for NH3 synthesis under ambient conditions wherein a high-efficiency electrocatalyst is paramount. In this study, we report that TiC/C nanofibers act as an efficient one-dimensional electrocatalyst for N-2-to-NH3 conversion. In 0.1 M HCl, such an electrocatalyst achieves a large NH3 yield of 14.1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 5.8% at -0.5 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, this electrocatalyst also shows both high electrochemical stability and structural stability during electrolysis. Density functional theory calculations further reveal that TiC can efficiently activate N-2 in an enzymatic route with a low energy barrier.
Efficient N(2)fixation at ambient condition through electrochemical processes has been regarded as a promising alternative to traditional Haber-Bosch technology. Engineering surface atomic architecture of the catalysts to generate desirable active sites is important to facilitate electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) while suppressing the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction. Herein, nickel telluride nanocrystals with selectively exposed {001} and {010} facets are synthesized by a simple process, realizing the manipulation of surface chemistry at the atomic level. It is found that the catalysts expose the {001} facets coupled with desirable Ni sites, which possess high Faraday efficiency of 17.38 +/- 0.36% and NH(3)yield rate of 33.34 +/- 0.70 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)at -0.1 V vs RHE, outperforming other samples enclosed by {010} facets (8.56 +/- 0.22%, 12.78 +/- 0.43 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)). Both experimental results and computational simulations reveal that {001} facets, with selectively exposed Ni sites, guarantee the adsorption and activation of N(2)and weaken the binding for *H species. Moreover, the enhanced reduction capacity and accelerated charge transfer kinetics also contribute the superior NRR performance of {001} facets. This work presents a novel strategy in designing nonprecious NRR electrocatalyst with exposed favorable active sites.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction (NRR) is deemed as a consummate answer for the traditional Haber-Bosch technology. Breaking the linear correlations between adsorption and transition-state energies of intermediates is vital to improve the kinetics of ammonia synthesis and obtain a less energy-intensive process. Herein, carbon-encapsulated mixed-valence Fe-7(PO4)(6) was prepared and applied as an electrocatalyst for high-efficiency NRR. A dramatic faradaic efficiency (FE) of 36.93% and an NH3 production rate of 13.1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). were obtained at -0.3 V versus RHE, superior to nearly all Fe-based catalysts. Experiments and DFT calculations revealed that the superior performance was ascribed to the synergistic effect of mixed-valence iron pair, which braked the linear correlations to improve the kinetics of ammonia from collaborative hydrogenation and *NH3 separation. This work proves the feasibility of mixed-valence catalysts for nitrogen reduction and thus opening a new avenue towards artificial nitrogen-fixation catalysts. (C) 2022 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
The electroreduction of nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) is gravely restricted by its inherent kinetic complexity and energy-intensive multi-electron steps. Most literature has reported that the first step of N-2 adsorption and activation is the bottleneck of electrochemistry N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). However, it is a considerable challenge to understand the design rule of catalysts with perfect performances for NRR. Here, as a proof-of concept experiment, we apply the theoretical calculations with the experimental studies to reveal the influence of the high spin related to the size effect and the charge density related to the substrate effect on the catalytic activity of NRR catalysts. The desired ultrafine Rh nanoparticles anchored on CNT exhibit excellent NRR performances, especially high NH3 yield (26.91 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)), Faradaic efficiency (23.48 %) and energy efficiency (20.50 %), outperforming most reported NRR electrocatalysts under ambient conditions, which can be attributed to excellent synergism of the high-spin polarization of Rh NPs and the charge exchange between Rh NPs and the substrate that can promote N-2 adsorption and activate its intrinsic N-N triple bond.
As a promising alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for producing NH3, the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in the aqueous electrolyte has attracted much attention. However, the presence of sluggish reaction kinetics and competitive hydrogen evolution could result in poor activity and unsatisfactory selectivity. Herein, self-supported NbSe2 nanosheet arrays have been prepared and tested as electrocatalysts for NH3 electrosynthesis with a Faradaic efficiency of 13.9 +/- 1.0% at -0.4 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE) and a yield rate of 89.5 +/- 6.0 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.45 V vs RHE in 0.1 M Na2SO4 under ambient conditions. Moreover, this electrocatalyst showed excellent durability during the 60-h electrolysis (no stable decay of Faradaic efficiencies and NH3 yield rates). Furthermore, density functional theory calculations disclosed that NbSe2 can effectively catalyze the dissociation of the adsorbed N-2 molecule and thus promote the NRR process. (C) 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Asymmetric (Pt|Nafion|Pt-Pd-Cu) assemblies were fabricated to study the nitrate-reduction reaction (NRR) at the cathode surface. The influence of the material composition, supplied current, and applied potential on the reactivity, kinetics, and product selectivity were thoroughly investigated. The cathode assembly consisting of 54atom% Pt showed enhanced reactivity both in binary (Pt-Pd; k(1)approximate to 10.7x10(-3)min(-1)) and ternary (Cu-Pt-Pd; k(1)approximate to 28.6x10(-3)min(-1)) states. This composition was found to be highly nitrite-selective (80% in the binary state and 53% in the ternary state). The mechanistic studies revealed that the reduction of nitrate ions to ammonia proceeded through a catalytic hydrogenation reaction followed by electrochemical hydrogen generation.
Owing to the environmental and inherent advantages, nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by electrocatalysts attracts global attention. The surface engineering is widely employed to enhance the electrocatalytic activity by atomic defects and heterostructure effects. A three-dimensional (3D) free-standing integrated electrode was fabricated by numerous nearly-single-crystal TiO2-delta N delta nanowire arrays. Based on the high electronic conductivity network, it exposes numerous active sites as well to facilitate the selective nitrogen adsorption and *H adsorption suppression. The synergistic effects between Ti3+ and oxygen vacancy (O-v) boost the intrinsic catalytic activity, in which Ti3+ acquired electrons via Ov can effectively activate the N N bond and make it easy to bind with protons. The energy barrier of primary protonation process (*N-2+H++e -> *NNH) can be dramatically decreased. The highest ammonia yield rate (14.33 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) emerges at -0.2 V, while the optimal ammonia Faradaic efficiency (9.17%) is acquired at -0.1 V. Density functional theory (DFT) calculation reveals that the Ti3+ can be served as the active sites for nitrogen adsorption and activation, while ammonia synthesis is accomplished by the distal pathway. The high electronic conductivity integrated network and synergistic effects can significantly facilitate nitrogen absorption and accelerate electrocatalytic reaction kinetic, which are responsible for the excellent NRR performance at room temperature. (C) 2022 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
The design and development of highly efficient catalysts for the electrochemical reduction of nitrogen into NH3 at ambient temperature and pressure has been an area of major research interest. In this work, electrochemical N-2 reduction following Heyrovsky-type associative and dissociative mechanisms is studied on the periodic Fe(111) surface using density functional theory calculations. Interestingly, the associative pathway has not been investigated on the Fe(111) surface in any of the previous studies though it is reported to be one of the best catalysts for ammonia synthesis. Therefore, we have investigated both the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) mechanisms on the Fe(111) surface. Free-energy analysis of associative and dissociative reaction pathways has been carried out, and it has been found that the associative mechanism is favorable over the dissociative mechanism with the formation of *NH2NH2 as a potential-determining step. Furthermore, the catalytic activity of cuboctahedral iron nanoclusters (NCs) is also investigated to understand the dimensional dependence of the Fe-based NRR activity. The NC shows a higher NRR activity by following an energetically more favorable ammonia desorption compared to the Fe(111) surface. The observed activity trends are explained from the site-specific interaction and binding energy of reaction intermediates. The surpassing of the high energy-demanding N-2 dissociation step by both the catalytic systems implies that NRR can be facilitated in an energetically favorable manner via an electrochemical reduction pathway.
The development of efficient earth-abundant electrocatalysts for N-2 reduction to ammonia (NH3) under ambient conditions is critical for achieving a low-carbon and sustainable-energy society. Herein, we report the development of VN nanosheet array on Ti mesh as an active and selective electrocatalyst for N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) in acid at room temperature and atmospheric pressure in 0.1 M HCl. A rate of NH3 formation of 8.40 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2) is obtained at -0.50 V with a Faradaic efficiency of 2.25%. Notably, such catalyst material also exhibits high selectivity (no formation of N2H4) and electrochemical stability. Theoretical and experiment results suggest that VN catalyzes NRR via a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. This study would offers the potential of utilization of attractive 3D catalyst electrode toward efficient NH3 synthesis for applications.
Nitrogen reduction into NH3 through electrocatalysis is of paramount importance presently. Because NH3 can be potential clean energy source and primary precursor for nitrogenous compounds. But prevailing method for NH3 synthesis, Haber-Bosch process, is energy inefficient. Electrochemical synthesis can circumvent this hur-dle. Recently, various efforts have been made to synthesize potential electrocatalytic materials for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR).2 Here in this review, Pd based electrocatalysts for NRR have been critically reviewed and summarized along with the underlying gaps and future perspectives. In first section, different possible mech-anisms for electrocatalytic NRR (EC-NRR)3are discussed. Next section comprises of recent strategies to suppress Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER)4 for enhanced EC-NRR and role of electrolyte pH on electrocatalyst's effi-ciency which is followed by section discussing the synthesis methods and their role in determining properties of material. In second last section, all the previously reported Pd catalysts have been classified as monometallic, bimetallic, trimetallic, and discussed systematically in context of NH3 generation and faradaic efficiency. The Pd based electrocatalysts have shown great propensity toward nitrogen reduction reaction but still in its nascent stage. Some strategic improvement in the electrocatalysts design such as use of poor HER support, doping with early transition metals, and sagacious use of electrolyte can push it to new level.
Ammonia (NH3), which serves as a fertilizer supply, is struggling to satisfy the ever-growing population requirements over the world. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction to NH3 production is highly desired but shows the extremely poor activity and selectivity of reported electrocatalysts. In this work, we rationally design a novel Rh atomic layer-decorated SnO2 heterostructure catalyst through the interfacial engineering strategy, simultaneously achieving the highest NH3 yield rate (149 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (11.69%) at -0.35 V vs the reversible hydrogen electrode. This result is superior to the optimum response of previously reported SnO2-or Rh-based catalysts for electrochemical nitrogen reduction. Both X-ray absorption spectra characterization and density functional theory calculations reveal the strong electron interaction between the Rh atomic layer and the SnO2 heterostructure, which effectively regulated the interfacial electron transfer and d-band center. The downshift of the d-band center results in the greatly reduced H adsorption energy and the highly accelerated reaction kinetics for nitrogen reduction. This work endows a new insight into the interfacial electron regulation for weakening H adsorption and further enhancing the electrocatalytic N-2 reduction.
Electrocatalysis plays an increasingly important role in converting atmospheric molecules (e.g., N-2, CO2 and H2O) to value-added products (e.g., NH3, C2H4 and H-2). However, developing a simple strategy for preparing catalysts with high performance for the effective conversion of clean energy is still full of challenges. Herein, we describe a straightforward, one-step reduction method to achieve the formation of Pt nanoparticles (NPs) and the vacancy engineering of TiO2-x nanofibers (NFs) simultaneously, which can be accomplished in 5 min. Furthermore, a Pt/TiO2-x nanofibrous aerogel (NA) with an ordered cellular architecture is prepared through a directional freezing technology. The Pt/TiO2-x NA with excellent mechanical properties can be made into a self-supporting electrode for electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR), showing high NH3 yield rate (4.81 x10(-10) mol/s cm(-2)) and Faraday efficiency (14.9%) at -0.35 V vs. RHE. (C) 2021 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Chemical Society and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences.
In their Communication (DOI: 10.1002/anie.202002029), J. Liang, S. Zhou, J. Liu, et al. demonstrate the simultaneous achievement of a high ammonia yield rate and high Faradic efficiency for electrochemical nitrogen reduction on a Fe-doped W18O49 nanowire@carbon paper catalyst, at a low overpotential. This work not only provides an outstanding electrocatalyst for nitrogen reduction, but also opens a new avenue for modulating the electronic and catalytic properties of electrocatalysts for various electrochemical processes.
Ammonia synthesis from the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction, which can weaken but not directly break the inert N N bond via multiple progressive protonation steps under mild conditions, has been recognized as one of the most attractive alternatives for the production of NH3. In this work, the potential of employing graphenylene-based triple-atom catalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction was investigated by using first-principles calculations. The performance of these catalysts was studied focusing on configuration optimization, thermal stability, catalyst selectivity and activity and the interaction mechanism. There was electron transfer between the transition metal atoms and the graphenylene substrate, which strengthens the structure stability of the complex systems and brings about sufficient catalytic activity. A more negative Delta G (N-2) for the nitrogen reduction reaction than Delta G (H) for the hydrogen evolution reaction is selected as an evaluation standard of good selectivity. Moreover, Delta G (*N*NH) or Delta G (*NNH) < 0.6 eV is used as a screening criterion for good activity. By screening, Mo-3@GP is found to show the best nitrogen reduction reaction performance with a low limiting potential of -0.39 V through a consecutive pathway. The excellent performance derives from the largest electron transfer ability of Mo-3 atoms and the electronic reservoir function of the GP substrate.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) process usually suffers extremely low Faradaic efficiency and ammonia yields due to sluggish N(sic)N dissociation. Herein, single-atomic ruthenium modified Mo2CTX MXene nanosheets as an efficient electrocatalyst for nitrogen fixation at ambient conditions are reported. The catalyst achieves a Faradaic efficiency of 25.77% and ammonia yield rate of 40.57 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) at -0.3 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.5 m K2SO4 solution. Operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy studies and density functional theory calculations reveal that single-atomic Ru anchored on MXene nanosheets act as important electron back-donation centers for N-2 activation, which can not only promote nitrogen adsorption and activation behavior of the catalyst, but also lower the thermodynamic energy barrier of the first hydrogenation step. This work opens up a promising avenue to manipulate catalytic performance of electrocatalysts utilizing an atomic-level engineering strategy.
The electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen (N-2) is considered as a carbon-free and energy-saving strategy to replace the traditional Haber-Bosch technique for artificial preparation of NH3. However, the electrocatalytic efficiency of current catalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) are drastically limited by the strong Nxe002;N (941.3 kJ mol(-1)) triple bond in the N-2 molecule. Herein, we prepare MoN nanorods supported on carbon fabric cloth (MoN/CFC) via seed-assisted hydrothermal and ammonolysis methods. SEM, XRD, XPS, and TEM techniques were conducted to investigate the structures and morphologies of MoN nanorods. The MoN/CFC electrode provides an optimal NH3 yield of 6.31 mu mol h(-1) cm(-2) (107.3 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) and the corresponding faradaic efficiency (FE) of 12.84% (-0.45 V vs. RHE) with excellent electrocatalytic stability towards NRR under a 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, and a potential mechanism is proposed.
The electrochemical reduction of N-2 into NH3 production under ambient conditions represents an attractive prospect for the fixation of N-2. However, this process suffers from low yield rate of NH3 over reported electrocatalysts. In this work, a record-high activity for N-2 electrochemical reduction over Ru single atoms distributed on nitrogen-doped carbon (Ru SAs/N-C) is reported. At -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, Ru SAs/N-C achieves a Faradaic efficiency of 29.6% for NH3 production with partial current density of -0.13 mA cm(-2). Notably, the yield rate of Ru SAs/N-C reaches 120.9 mu g(NH3) mg(cat)(-1).h(-1), which is one order of magnitude higher than the highest value ever reported. This work not only develops a superior electrocatalyst for NH3 production, but also provides a guideline for the rational design of highly active and robust single-atom catalysts.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is emerging as a great promise for ambient and sustainable NH3 production while it still suffers from the high adsorption energy of N-2, the difficulty of *NN protonation, and inevitable hydrogen evolution, leading to a great challenge for efficient NRR. Herein, we synthesized a series of amorphous trimetal Pd-based (PdCoM (M = Cu, Ag, Fe, Mo)) nanosheets (NSs) with an ultrathin 2D structure, which shows high efficiency and robust electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation. Among them, amorphous PdCoCu NSs exhibit excellent NRR activity at low overpotentials with an NH3 yield of 60.68 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a corresponding Faraday efficiency of 42.93% at -0.05 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode as well as outstanding stability with only 5% decrease after a long test period of 40 h at room temperature. The superior NRR activity and robust stability should be attributed to the large specific surface area, abundant active sites as well as structural engineering and electronic effect that boosts up the Pd 4d band center, which further efficiently restrains the hydrogen evolution. This work offers an opportunity for more energy conversion devices through the novel strategy for designing active and stable catalysts.
Industrial ammonia production is usually carried out under conditions of high temperature and pressure, which is energy-intensive and causes environmental pollution. Current materials used for catalytic nitrogen reduction have drawbacks such as slow reaction kinetics and being prone to hydrogen evolution. How to improve the reaction rate and Faraday efficiency has become an urgent problem. In this paper, a new ultra-thin two-dimensional conductive material Ti3C2 MXene was used as the substrate, on which the Pd2+ ions were loaded, and could be reduced to Pd. The composite Pd@Ti3C2 with different Pd contents were prepared. The performance of the Pd particles on the surface of the two-dimensional Ti3C2 nanosheets was tested. The results showed that the nanoscaled Pd could promote the reduction of nitrogen. When the addition ratio of Pd was 5%, the compound showed the best performance and good stability. The doping of Pd can improve the nitrogen reduction performance of Ti3C2 nanosheets.
The verification of the lithium-mediated nitrogen reduction system in 2019 has led to an explosion in the literature focussing on improving the metrics of faradaic efficiency, stability, and activity. However, while the literature acknowledges the vast intrinsic overpotential for nitrogen reduction due to the reliance on in situ lithium plating, it has thus far been difficult to accurately quantify this overpotential and effectively analyse further voltage losses. In this work, we present a simple method for determining the Reversible Hydrogen Electrode (RHE) potential in the lithium-mediated nitrogen reduction system. This method allows for an investigation of the Nernst equation and reveals sources of potential losses. These are namely the solvation of the lithium ion in the electrolyte and resistive losses due to the formation of the solid electrolyte interphase. The minimum observed overpotential was achieved in a 0.6 M LiClO4, 0.5 vol% ethanol in tetrahydrofuran electrolyte. This was -3.59 +/- 0.07 V vs. RHE, with a measured faradaic efficiency of 6.5 +/- 0.2%. Our method allows for easy comparison between the lithium-mediated system and other nitrogen reduction paradigms, including biological and homogeneous mechanisms.
Renewable energy-driven electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides a green and sustainable route for NH3 synthesis under ambient conditions but is plagued by a high reaction barrier and low selectivity. To promote NRR, modification of the catalyst surface to increase N-2 adsorption and activation is key. Here, we show that engineering surface oxygen vacancies of TiO2 permits significantly enhanced NRR activity with an NH3 yield rate of about 3.0 mu g(NH3)h(-)(1 )mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 6.5% at -0.12 V (vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE). Efficient conversion of N-2 to NH3 is achieved in a wide applied potential range from -0.07 to -0.22 V (vs. RHE) with NH3 production rates >= 2.0 RgNH(3 )mu g(NH3)h(-)(1 )mg(cat.)(-1) and NH3 FEs >= 4.9%, respec- tively. An NH3 FE as high as 9.8% is obtained at a low overpotential of 80 mV. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the surface oxygen vacancies in TiO2 play a vital role in facilitating electrochemical N-2 reduction by activating the first protonation step and also increasing N-2 chemisorption (relative to *H).
As an important chemical raw material and potential energy, the preparation method of NH3 has gradually attracted the attention of scholars. Due to the increasing pressure on environmental protection and the growing reduction of energy resources, researchers have been committed to do the research on the reduction of N-2 to NH3 by electric energy, instead of the traditional preparation method. The electric energy is a kind of environmental-protection material compared with traditional materials. However, there are still many defects of these methods, such as slow reaction kinetics and competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Therefore, how to improve the reaction rate and Faraday efficiency have become an urgent problem to be solved in the study of electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction. In this paper, Au3+ ions were electrostatically adsorbed on the surface of Ti3C2 nanosheets, which was a new ultra-thin two-dimensional conductive material, and Au@Ti3C2 samples with different contents were prepared by self-reduction of Au3+ ions to Au. The structure and performance tests showed that the Au nanoparticles on the surface of two-dimensional Ti3C2 nanosheets were nano sized. The nano scaled Au could promote the reduction of nitrogen and when the addition ratio of Au was 1%, Au@Ti3C2 showed the best performance and good stability.
Industrial synthesis of NH3 relies mainly on the traditional Haber-Bosch process, which is highly energy-intensive with enormous greenhouse gas emission. Electrochemical N-2 reduction provides an eco-friendly approach for energy-saving NH3 synthesis, but it requires highly efficient electrocatalysts under ambient conditions. In this communication, an MnO2-decorated Ti3C2Tx (T = F, OH) MXene nanohybrid (MnO2-Ti3C2Tx) is proposed as a highly active electrocatalyst for the N-2 reduction reaction with strong durability. In addition, only the NH3 product without N2H4 can be detected during the NRR, revealing the excellent selectivity of MnO2-Ti3C2Tx for NH3 formation. A high NH3 yield of 34.12 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 11.39% are achieved at -0.55 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M HCl. Density functional theory calculations further reveal that the unsaturated surface Mn atoms act as active sites to adsorb and activate the inert N-2 molecules for the NRR process, and the rate-determining step is the first hydrogenation process.
Ammonia forms the fundamental agricultural constituent and vital energy provenance of a clean hydrogen mediator. Ammonia production leads to immense energy utilization and drastic environmental repercussion. It is a daunting task to design and synthesize competent catalysts for reduction of nitrogenous species (nitrogen or nitrates, by the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) or nitrate reduction reaction (NO3RR) process, respectively) into ammonia. Cobalt(II) phthalocyanine (CoPc) nanotubes were effectively wrapped by 2D graphene sheets to produce a (1D-2D) heterostructure catalyst, which plays the role of a competent electrocatalyst for the NRR as well as NO3RR. The electrocatalyst showed an ammonia yield rate and a Faradaic efficiency of 58.82 mu g h-1 mg-1cat and 95.12%, respectively, for the NO3RR and for NRR 143.38 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat and 43.69%, respectively. Bader charge investigation revealed the transport of charge to Co-N-4 active sites from reduced graphene oxide (RGO), which aids during the production of intermediates NNH* for nitrogen reduction and *NOH for nitrate reduction along with suppression of the parasitic HER, thereby demonstrating good selectivity and Faradaic efficiency. This work showcases new mechanistic discernment about the role of work function, interfacial charge transport, and electrocatalytic overpotential for the nitrogen/nitrate reduction reaction.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction is an environmentally friendly and sustainable approach for NH3 synthesis under mild conditions, while an efficient electrocatalyst is crucial for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Herein, we report Ti3+ self-doped TiO2-x nanowires on Ti mesh (Ti3+-TiO2-x/TM) as an efficient non-noble-metal NRR electrocatalyst with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, the Ti3+-TiO2-x/TM achieves a high faradaic efficiency of 14.62% with a NH3 yield of 3.51 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at -0.55 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Density functional theory calculations further reveal that introducing Ti3+ decreases the reaction energy barrier and increases the number of active sites on the TiO2 surface for the NRR.
Electrochemical catalysis of nitrogen to ammonia is an environmentally friendly alternative strategy to the traditional and damaging Haber-Bosch process. Nevertheless, it is Limited by a Low ammonia yield and faradaic efficiency due to (i) the complexity associated with the breaking of the N N bond and (ii) the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Herein, we report that the electrochemical dealloying of exfoliated PdBi2 nanoflakes into palladium hydride greatly enhances the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction. The electrochemical decomposition of bismuth atoms creates vacancies in the PdBi2 crystal lattice enabling hydrogen atoms to be absorbed and instigating the initial protonation of N-2 molecules necessary for the eventual NH3 formation. The average ammonia yield and faradaic efficiency were 30.06 +/- 1.16 mu g cm(-2)h(-1) and 15.25 +/- 1.29% when the potentiaL was held at -1.5 V vs. sat. Ag/AgCl after 6 h at room temperature. Our conclusions are supported by the first-principles simulations and this work emphasizes the potential implementation of palladium compounds for future N-2 reduction reaction electrocatalysts.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis, which couples oxygen evolution at the anode with nitrogen reduction at the cathode, holds great significance for future food and energy needs. Both of these half-cell reactions determine the overall cell potential and efficiency of the process. However, the employment of different catalysts on either side, due to discrete mechanisms, increases the complexity and material processing costs of the system, where the designing of a bifunctional catalyst active towards both the NRR and OER is of huge significance. Unfortunately, the initial screening of the designed catalysts via physical characterizations, optical methods and other techniques, does not provide details about the electrochemical activity. The scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) technique can be useful to screen multi-catalysts at the same time for their electrochemical activities. Herein, we employed the sample generation-tip collection (SG-TC) mode of SECM to screen the designed NixBy catalysts before half-cell investigations, which suggested that the catalyst synthesized via sonochemical reduction (SR), i.e. NixBy (SR), was a better catalyst. This inference was in accordance with the half-cell NRR and OER measurements (FE: 49% for NH3 production, OER overpotential: 300 mV). By virtue of this remarkable bifunctional activity, the NRR-OER coupled full cell was assembled, which initiated the NH3 production at just 1.7 V and produced NH3 (1.08 mg h(-1) mgcat(-1)) at the cathode and O-2 (0.81 mg h(-1) mgcat(-1)) at the anode after 2 h of electrolysis at 1.9 V.
Catalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) are at the heart of key alternative technology to the Haber-Bosch process for NH3 synthesis, and are expected to optimize the interplay between efficiency, activity and selectivity. Here, we report our recent finding that P-doped graphene shows superior NRR performances in aqueous media at present, with a remarkably large NH3 yield of 32.33 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 20.82% at -0.65 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode. The mechanism is clarified by density functional theory calculations.
Rational design of catalytic sites to activate the inert N equivalent to N bond is of paramount importance to advance N-2 electroreduction. Here, guided by the theoretical predictions, we construct a NiFe layered double hydroxide (NiFe-LDH) nanosheet catalyst with a high density of electron-deficient sites, which were achieved by introducing oxygen vacancies in NiFe-LDH. Density functional theory calculations indicate that the electron-deficient sites show a much lower energy barrier (0.76 eV) for the potential determining step compared with that of the pristine NiFe-LDH (2.02 eV). Benefiting from this, the NiFe-LDH with oxygen vacancies exhibits the greatly improved electrocatalytic activity, presenting a high NH3 yield rate of 19.44 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat)(-1), Faradaic efficiency of 19.41% at -0.20 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, as well as the outstanding stability. The present work not only provides an active electrocatalyst toward N-2 reduction but also offers a facile strategy to boost the N-2 reduction.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) for NH3 generation under ambient conditions presents a promising alternative to the conventional Haber-Bosch process. Here, we report a Fe single-atom catalyst for ambient electrochemical NH3 synthesis. This catalyst achieves high Faradaic efficiency (18.6 +/- 0.8%) and NH3 yield rate (62.9 +/- 2.7 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1)) in neutral aqueous electrolyte at room temperature and -0.4 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. Furthermore, this catalyst exhibits a negligible activity decay during electrolysis for 24 h. X-ray absorption fine structure analyses and theoretical calculations reveal that atomically dispersed single Fe species are stabilized by N in Fe-N4 configuration, which is favorable for N-2 activation. This work opens new opportunities for developing advanced single atomic site catalysts for NH3 synthesis via NRR.
Ammonia plays an important role in production and life, but the high energy consumption of the industrial Haber-Bosch process encourages people to study nitrogenase, which can convert nitrogen into ammonia under environmental conditions. Here, we reported an atomically dispersed Fe-N-4 fixed on a carbon substrate (Fe-N/C) with the Fe single atom loading up to 3.5 wt % and the specific surface area reaching up to 1088.96 m(2) g(-1). Furthermore, Fe-N/C was modified on carbon papers (CPs) to form Fe-N/C-CPs as effective electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalysts, achieving an R-NH3 of 2.27 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with an FE of 7.67% at -0.2 V (vs RHE). The uniformly dispersed and high ratio Fe single atoms in Fe-N/C ensure that the active sites can be fully exposed, which has the ability to reduce the stable N N triple bond and facilitate subsequent activation and hydrogenation of nitrogen molecules, improving the electrocatalytic NRR activity. Density functional theory theoretical calculations proved that Fe-N/C-CPs with the Fe-N-4 configuration, which catalyzes the reduction of nitrogen by the alternating mechanism, can effectively reduce the Gibbs free energy in the rate-determining step, thereby increasing the catalytic activity.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction has emerged as a sustainable and eco-friendly route for the artificial synthesis of NH3 under ambient conditions, but active electrocatalysts are needed to drive the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Here, Bi nanodendrites are reported as an efficient NRR electrocatalyst for N-2 to NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M HCl, this catalyst achieves a large NH3 yield of 25.86 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 10.8% at -0.60 V and -0.55 V versus a reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively, with high electrochemical durability.
Ammonia (NH3) production via electrochemical nitrogen reduction is gaining popularity as a clean and sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch process (HBP). Here we report ZnMn2O4 derived from spent primary ZnC battery as an efficient electrocatalyst for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). This catalysts needs only water apart from N2 as reactant. The catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity with an NH3 yield rate of 143 & PLUSMN; 3 & mu;g h-1 mgcat - 1 and a faradaic efficiency of 49 & PLUSMN; 2 % at - 0.5 V vs. RHE. Mechanistic modeling of the experimental data was carried out to gain insight into the kinetic parameters. DFT calculations were also employed to corroborate the mechanism hypothesized for NRR in this work.
The electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia on Au-based catalysts showed a reasonably high Coulombic efficiency. The pathway of this promising reaction, however, is not clear partially due to the lack of information on reaction intermediates. Herein, surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (SEIRAS) was employed to study the reaction mechanisms of nitrogen reduction on an Au thin film for the first time. During the nitrogen reduction, the N2Hy species was detected with bands at 1453 (H-N-H bending), 1298 (-NH2 wagging), and 1109 cm(-1) (N-N stretching) at potentials below 0 V against reversible hydrogen electrode. This result indicates that the nitrogen reduction reaction on Au surfaces follows an associative mechanism, and the N N bond in N-2 tends to break simultaneously with the hydrogen addition. By comparison, no absorption band associated with N was observed on Pt surfaces under the same reaction condition. This result is consistent with the low efficiency of nitrogen reduction on Pt due to the much faster kinetics of hydrogen evolution reaction.
The overwhelmingly competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is a bottleneck challenge in the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) process. Herein, we develop a general and effective strategy to suppress the HER via covalent surface functionalization to modulate the local micro environment of the electrocatalyst. A hydrophobic molecular layer with tunable coverage density was coated on the surface of Ti3C2Tx MXene, and the one with appropriate coverage density significantly improved the eNRR efficiency with an excellent faradaic efficiency (FE) of 38.01% at -0.35 V and a high NH3 yield rate of 17.81 mu g h-1mgcat -1 at -0.55 V (vs RHE) in a Na2SO4 solution, which were 3.5-fold in FE and 6.5-fold in NH3 yield rate higher than those of the pristine Ti3C2Tx. Experimental results combined with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations reveal that the hydrophobic molecular layer on the surface greatly limits the proton transfer and benefits higher exposure of active sites with enhanced N2 chemisorption ability, which cumulatively contribute to the boosted eNRR efficiency.
Constructing efficient catalysts for N-2 reduction into value added ammonia under ambient conditions is a considerable challenge. Herein, well-defined single-site metal-organic frameworks (MOFs, M-TCPP; M = Fe, Co, or Zn) were constructed and evaluated as electrocatalysts for N-2 reduction. The prepared Fe-TCPP exhibited prominent performance with a high NH3 yield of 44.77 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 16.23%, superior to that of all the reported molecular and MOF catalysts. The superior performance was ascribed to the highly effective N-2 activation at the Fe site, and benefited from the overall reaction thermodynamics advantage in the key reaction step of *NNH formation. This study gives an understanding of the intrinsic activity of well-defined catalysts in the electrocatalytic N-2 reduction, and provides atomic-level insights into the rational design and engineering of highly active catalysts for artificial N-2 fixation.
Due to its fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly nature, the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has drawn significant attention. However, most of the catalysts reported for the NRR are noble metals or oxides, which are expensive and poorly conductive. Therefore, the development of effective electrocatalysts for nitrogen (N-2) fixation under ambient conditions has become a promising field. Herein, we report fluorine-free Ti3C2Tx (T = O, OH) nanosheets with a small size (similar to 50-100 nm lateral size) as catalysts for the NRR. The as-prepared materials achieved a high NH3 yield (36.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) and faradaic efficiency (9.1%) at -0.3 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 M HCl. The size effect and fluorine-free properties make the performance around two times higher than that in the case of a fluorine-based treatment. This paper inspires us to pursue the extreme size (e.g. quantum dots) of MXenes which will enhance its NRR property greatly.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (ECNRR) is a sustainable and environmentally friendly method for NH3 synthesis under environmental conditions relative to the Haber-Bosch process; however, its low selectivity (Faradaic efficiency (FE)) and low NH3 yield impede the progress. Herein, benefiting from the application of the interface engineering strategy, a multicomponent TiO2/Ag/Cu7S4@SeCC heterogeneous electrocatalyst with a unique structure was successfully fabricated, generating a unique sandwich structure by using a Ag layer as an electric bridge intercalated between TiO2 and Cu7S4, in which the optimized catalyst can accelerate the electron transfer efficiency. Moreover, through the electronic structure adjustment, an electron-deficient region was constructed, which can inhibit the H-2 adsorption but enhance the N-2 adsorption, thereby improving the selectivity and the catalytic activity. Significantly, the FE and NH3 yield of TiO2/Ag/Cu7S4@Se-CC reached 51.05 +/- 0.16% and 39.16 +/- 2.31 mu g h(-1) cm(-2), in which the FE is among the highest non-precious metalbased NRR electrocatalysts in alkaline electrolytes reported. This study provides insight into the rational design and construction of NRR electrocatalysts for electrocatalytic applications.
The industrial-scale NH3 production still heavily depends on the Haber-Bosch process which demands not only high energy consumption but emits a large amount of CO2. Electrochemical fixation of N-2 to NH3 under ambient conditions is regarded as an eco-friendly and sustainable approach, but stable and efficient electrocatalysts are demanded for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this work, we report our recent finding that an Ag nanosheet acts as a high-performance NRR electrocatalyst at room temperature and pressure. Electrochemical tests in 0.1 M HCl reveal that such a catalyst achieves a high Faradaic efficiency of 4.8% and a NH3 yield rate of 4.62 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at -0.60 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), rivaling the performances of most of the reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts. Additionally, the Ag nanosheet also shows excellent selectivity, strong long-term electrochemical stability and durability.
Electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia under ambient conditions is regarded as a potential approach to tackle the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, it usually suffers from extremely low ammonia yield and faradaic efficiency due to the lack of highly active and selective electrocatalysts. Herein, fusiform-like ruthenium-copper alloy nanosheets (RuCu-FNs) were prepared by alloy engineering and utilized for the electrocatalytic NRR under ambient conditions. A high FE of 7.2% and an NH(3)yield rate of 53.6 mu g h(-1)mg(cat)(-1)were achieved at -0.1 Vvs.RHE, which were better than those of the corresponding non-metallic catalyst and most alloy catalysts. The superior performance was ascribed to the differentiated second catalytic site for achieving both effectively adsorptive activation of chemically inert N(2)and intermediate desorption from the catalyst surface. The source of NH(3)was also identified with isotopic labelingviaa self-developed simple and economic pathway. We provided a feasible pathway for the rational design of electrocatalysts for artificial N(2)fixation.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a sustainable approach for NH3 production with low energy consumption. However, competing hydrogen reduction reaction (HER) in aqueous solution results in low NH3 production and Faraday efficiency (FE). Here, MoS2 nanostructures with a hydrophobic surface are synthesized by alkyl thiols modification. Aerophilic and hydrophobic surface facilitates an efficient three-phase contact of N-2, H2O, and catalyst. Thus, localized concentrated N-2 molecules can overcome the mass transfer limitation of N-2 and depress the HER due to lowering the proton contacts. Although the active-sites decrease with the increase of the alkyl chain since the thiol may cover the active site, the optimized electrocatalyst achieves NH 3 yield of 12.86 x 10(-11) mol.cm(-2).s(-1) at -0.25 V and 22.23% FE, which are 4.3 and 24 times higher than those of MoS2-CP electrocatalyst, respectively. The increased catalytic performance is attributed to the high N-2 adsorption and depressed HER.
Here, we report an anodic replacement of the water oxidation reaction with more readily oxidizable species to facilitate ambient electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). A self-supported catalyst, Cu-II-MOF on carbon cloth (JUC-1000/CC), acts as a versatile cathode and anode for both NRR and electro-oxidation of sodium gluconate to glucaric acid. Impressively, the two-electrode system requires a potential of only 0.4 V to achieve an NH3 yield rate of 24.7 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1), an FE of 11.90% and an SA selectivity of 96.96%, and shows strong electrochemical stability. This study reveals that the strategy avoids the sacrifice of the NH3 yield to increase FE, and offers an efficient and simultaneous electrosynthesis of NH3 and SA.
NH3 production vastly relies on the Haber-Bosch process, causing high energy consumption and carbon dioxide emission. Electrochemical N-2 fixation is considered as an eco-friendly and sustainable process, but its efficiency depends greatly on the activity and stability of the catalyst used. Therefore, it is imperative to develop efficient electrocatalysts in the field of nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). In this communication, we propose that structured polyaniline is an efficient metal-free NRR electrocatalyst in aqueous solution, achieving a NH3 yield rate of 5.45x10(-11) mol s(-1)cm(-2) and a Faradaic efficiency of 3.76% at -0.70 and -0.60 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M HCl, respectively. Furthermore, it also possesses high selectivity and stability.
Developing high-efficiency nonmetal electrocatalysts for the electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is of great significance for the sustainable development of human society. Here, we demonstrate that surface modification of reduced graphene oxide by tannic acid is a mild and effective strategy to boost its NRR activity. Such electrocatalyst is stable with an NH3 formation rate of 17.02 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)cat. in 0.5 M LiClO4, and its Faradaic efficiency can reach 4.83% at an optimized potential. The work would provide an impressive new option to boost the electrocatalytic N-2-fixing performances of carbon materials by organic molecules modification.
There are numerous reports of photo(electro)catalysts demonstrating activity for nitrogen reduction to ammonia and a few reports of photo(electro)catalysts demonstrating activity for nitrogen oxidation to nitric acid. However, progress in advancing solar-to-fertilizer applications is slow, due in part to the pace of catalyst screening. Most evaluations of photo(electro)catalysts activity occur using batch reactors. This is because common product analyses require accumulation of ammonia or nitric acid in the reactor to overcome instrument detection limits. The primary aim here is to examine the use of an electroanalytical method, rotating ring disk electrode voltammetry (RRDE), to detect ammonia produced by a nitrogen fixing photo(electro)catalyst. To examine the potential for RRDE, we investigated a photo(electro)catalyst known to reduce nitrogen to ammonia (titania), while varying the applied electrochemical potential and degree of illumination on the disk. We show that the observed ammonia oxidation at the ring electrode corresponds strongly with ammonia measurements obtained from the bulk electrolyte. Indicating that RRDE may be effective for catalyst screening. The chief limitation of this approach is the need for an alkaline electrolyte. In addition, this approach does not rule out the presence of adventitious ammonia.
Direct electrocatalytic reduction of N-2 to NH3 under mild conditions is attracting considerable interests but still remains enormous challenges in terms of respect of intrinsic catalytic activity and limited electrocatalytic efficiency. Herein, a photo-enhanced strategy is developed to improve the NRR activity on Cu single atoms catalysts. The atomically dispersed Cu single atoms supported TiO2 nanosheets (Cu SAs/TiO2) achieve a Faradaic Efficiency (12.88%) and NH3 yield rate (6.26 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) at -0.05 V versus RHE under the light irradiation field, in which NH3 yield rate is fivefold higher than that under pure electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) process and is remarkably superior in comparison to most of the similar type electrocatalysts. The existence of external light field improves electron transfer ability between Cu-O and Ti-O, and thus optimizes the accumulation of surface charges on Cu sites, endowing more electrons involved in nitrogen fixation. This work reveals an atomic-scale mechanistic understanding of field effect-enhanced electrochemical performance of catalysts and it provides predictive guidelines for the rational design of photo-enhanced electrochemical N-2 reduction catalysts.
The electrochemical synthesis of NH3 by the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) at low temperature (<65 degrees C) and atmospheric pressure using nanosized gamma-Fe2O3 electrocatalysts were demonstrated. The activity and selectivity of the catalyst was investigated both in a 0.1 M KOH electrolyte and when incorporated into an anion-exchange membrane electrode assembly (MEA). In a half-reaction experiment conducted in a KOH electrolyte, the gamma-Fe2O3 electrode presented a faradaic efficiency of 1.9% and a weight-normalized activity of 12.5 nmol h(-1) mg(-1) at 0.0 V. However, the selectivity toward N-2 reduction decreased at more negative potentials owing to the competing proton reduction reaction. When the gamma-Fe2O3 nanoparticles were coated onto porous carbon paper to form an electrode for a MEA, their weight-normalized activity for N-2 reduction was found to increase dramatically to 55.9 nmol h(-1) mg(-1). However, the weight- and area-normalized N-2 reduction activities of gamma-Fe2O3 decreased progressively from 35.9 to 14.8 nmol h(-1) mg(-1) and from 0.105 to 0.043 nmol h(-1) Cm-2 (act)) respectively, during a 25 h MEA durability test. In summary, a study of the fundamental behavior and catalytic activity of gamma-Fe2O3 nanoparticles in the electrochemical synthesis of NH3 under low temperature and pressure is presented.
Fixation nitrogen using renewable energy has attracted much attention recently. However, the performance is limited by the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the difficulty in activating N-2. Here, an attractive strategy was proposed to enhance the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) activity by introducing Pd into the HKUST-1 framework. After thermal treatment, the obtained Pd/HKUST-1 (250 & DEG;C) catalyst exhibited an ammonia production rate of 42.0 mg/g(cat) . h at -0.4 V vs. RHE with Faradaic efficiency of 4.6 %. The ammonia production reached as high as 415 mg/g(cat) in a 10-hours stability test. With the assistance of density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the incorporated Pd was revealed to have the unique property to react with adsorbed H (H-ad) atom from HER and form alpha-PdH species. Compared with other metals such as Ag, Au, and Pt, the in situ formed alpha-PdH species could reduce the energy barrier of the rate-limiting *N2H step, resulting in an enhanced NRR activity.
A key challenge for electrochemical nitrogen reduction reactions (NRR) is the difficulty for conventional catalysts to achieve high currents at low H* coverage to produce appreciable NH3. Herein, we specially designed an Au nanoparticle-embedded ZnSe photo-electrode to solve the problem. As-designed photo-electrode achieves excellent NRR performance with a high NH3 yield (12.2 mu g cm(-2) h(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (27.3 %). Our work reveals that the unique plasmon resonance effect of embedded Au nanoparticles plays a key role in increasing catalytic current when the H* coverage is decreased. Moreover, we successfully established a correlation between H* coverage and NRR performance based on theoretical calculations and experimental observations. This work paves the path for the future design of catalytic materials to overcome the selectivity and yield challenge of sustainable NH3 production.
The synthesis of ammonia in industrial-scale mainly depends on Haber-Bosch process, which entails huge energy consumption and massive CO2 emission. Electrocatalytic nitrogen-to-ammonia is a promising alternative, which could be powered by renewable energy source. However, the development of proper catalysts with good yield, superior stability, and excellent selectivity is one of the most challenges for electrochemical reduction of nitrogen. Here, a cost-efficient electrocatalytic material, Co3O4 coated on CNT, was reported as an electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction catalyst to generate NH3. Applying CNT as an excellent substrate for growing Co3O4 could effectively improve the electronic conduction properties and boost N-2 adsorption. This catalyst attains a favorable NH3 yield as 27. 16 +/- 2.22 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1 )at -0.49 V vs. RHE in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution under ambient conditions. It also shows strong electrochemical durability and excellent selectivity. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cost-effective and nonprecious iron-based catalysts were synthesized, evaluated, and compared for electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under alkaline conditions in the potential range from -0.4 to 0.1 V [vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)] at low temperature (<= 60 degrees C) and atmospheric pressure. The tested H-type cell was separated by an anion exchange membrane in 6 M KOH alkaline electrolyte (pH = over 14) in order to minimize hydrogen evolution reaction and to directly form NH3 gas. The amount of ammonia synthesized was quantified using an indophenol blue method and cross-checked with H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and ion chromatography using both N-14(2), and N-15(2) gases. Because of the synergistic effect between the Fe3C, Fe2O3, and Fe composites in the NRR, both the ammonia formation rate and faradaic efficiency in Fe3C/Fe2O(3)/Fe/C were approximately fourfold higher than those in Fe2O3/C at 60 degrees C and 0.1 V (vs RHE). These results can provide insights into designing Fe-based electrocatalysts for NRR at atmospheric pressure.
At present, the research on highly active and stable nitrogen reduction reaction catalysts is still challenging work for the electrosynthesis of ammonia (NH3). Herein, we synthesized atomically dispersed zinc active sites supported on N-doped carbon nanosheets (Zn/NC NSs) as an efficient nitrogen reduction reaction catalyst, which achieves a high ammonia yield of 46.62 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. at -0.85 V (vs RHE) and Faradaic efficiency of 95.8% at -0.70 V (vs RHE). In addition, Zn/NC NSs present great stability and selectivity, and there is no significant change in NH3 rate and Faradaic efficiencies after multiple cycles. The structural characterization shows that the active center in the nitrogen reduction reaction process is the Zn-N-4 sites in the catalyst. DFT calculation confirms that Zn/NC with Zn-N-4 configuration has a lower energy barrier for the formation of *NNH intermediate compared with pure N-doped carbon nanosheets (N-C NSs), thus promoting the hydrogenation kinetics in the whole nitrogen reduction reaction process.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation under ambient conditions represents an energy-saving sustainable alternative strategy to the energy-consuming traditional Haber-Bosch process toward ammonia synthesis. However, the traditional electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) often suffer low selectivity and low activity. From quantum-mechanical calculations, we obtain a benefit clue that the Ni atom adsorbed by the first hydrogen ion in the catalyst exhibits selectivity for the adsorption of N-2 and other H atoms, and it preferentially adsorbs N-2 molecules. Thus, we propose an interfacial engineering strategy to simultaneously accelerate selectivity and activity using metal/metal hydroxide. The remarkable activity of metal/metal hydroxide originates from its synergized water dissociation and unique hydrogenation pathway of metal hydride. The priority absorption of the N-2 suppresses the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction and accelerates the ki-netics to generate *N2H: *H + N-2 -> *N2H, which a is rate-limiting step for NH3 synthesis. Using Ni/NiFe-OH as prototypes, here we show that selectivity and catalytic activity are simultaneously enhanced, surprisingly, in simple inorganic hybrid and confers excep-tionally Faradaic efficiency of 23.34% and NH3 yield 19.74 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) at -0.15 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.5 M KOH electrolyte under ambient conditions. The long-term durability is also excellent. This work provides a possibility for the rational design of efficient electrocatalysts for N-2 electrochemical reduction with a large-scale production. (C) 2021 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Identifying highly selective catalysts and accurately measuring NH3 yield without false-positives from contaminations remain two challenges in electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Here, we report N-defective carbon nitride grown on carbon paper (CN/C) as a highly selective electrocatalyst. The NH3 yield was determined reliably by the slope of m NH3-time plot rather than averaging the accumulated amount over time. Results showed the as-synthesized CN/C-600 (synthesized at 600 degrees C) with a higher density of C=N-C N-2C vacancies achieved an NH3 production of 2.9 mu g mg(cat).(-1) h(-1) at -0.3 V (versus RHE), similar to 5.7-fold higher than CN/C-500. The Faradaic efficiency for CN/C-600 is among the highest of 62.1%, 33.9%, and 16.8% at -0.1 V, -0.2 V, and -0.3 V, respectively. The NH3 production was verified by isotope N-15(2) experiments. Further increase of N-defects on CN/C 6000 using plasma etching led to higher NH3 yield than comparably larger current, pointing to N-defects sites for promoting NRR.
As an energy-saving and environmentally friendly ammonia synthesis method, electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has received a great deal of attention. There is thus an urgent need to find high-efficiency electrocatalysts for the NRR. In this work, a Cu/Ti3C2 composite catalyst was prepared and demonstrated excellent selectivity under environmental conditions, which could efficiently convert N-2 into NH3 electrochemically. In 0.1 M KOH, Cu/Ti3C2 can achieve a high Faradaic efficiency of 7.31 % and a high NH3 production rate of 3.04 mu mol h(-1) cm(-2) at -0.5 V vs. RHE. Moreover, the material also exhibits superior electrochemical stability and durability. At the same time, density functional theory (DFT) shows that, compared with Ti3C2, Cu/Ti3C2 exhibits a wider conduction and valence band and a larger Fermi level, thus indicating that Cu plays a vital role in the enhancement of the catalytic activity and conductivity of Ti3C2-based materials. This work provides a feasible strategy for designing high-efficiency MXene-based NRR electrocatalysts.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis forms a key part of sustainable chemical synthesis. Single-atom catalysts have emerged as a promising class of electrocatalysts that could be capable of electrochemically reducing nitrogen into ammonia. The analysis of electrochemical reduction of nitrogen is complicated by multiple mechanistic pathways and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. The identified pathways using thermodynamic analysis based on density functional theory calculations is strongly dependent on the choice of the exchange correlation functional. In this work, we provide a computational methodological framework using the single-atom systems as an example material class for ammonia synthesis that is robust toward parameter selection. Applying this to Pt-1/g-C3N4, Ru-1/g-C3N4, and Fe-1/g-C3N4, we generate ensembles of limiting potentials, using the ensemble of functionals collected via Bayesian error estimation functionals, to robustly predict catalytic activity. We then extend this to study the scaling between the nitrogen reduction reaction intermediates and use it to identify NNH* as the best descriptor for these relations. In addition, a procedure to investigate selectivity is outlined, and a more robust way to analyze the selectivity-activity trade-off is presented. For this single-atom material class, we find choosing catalysts that lie on the strong binding leg of the activity volcano is worth further exploration. Given the ease of integration of the proposed method with minimal additional computational cost, we believe this should become a routine part of the analysis workflow for multielectron electrochemical reactions.
The synthesis of a VS4-140 material and its high performance in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction are reported. VS4-140 shows the highest NH3 yield of 46.74 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) with a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 8.5% at -0.59 V (vs RHE), superior to VS2. By using first-principles calculations, we identify the different behaviors of VS2 and VS4-140 regarding both the reaction mechanism and the associated electronic origins. The reduction of nitrogen proceeds preferentially via the alternative pathway with VS4-140. This work points out the promising potential of vanadium tetrasulfide in nitrogen reduction and provides ideas for the design of more efficient catalysts.
Ammonia was produced electrochemically from nitrogen/air in aqueous alkaline electrolytes by using a Fe2O3/TiO2 composite catalyst under room temperature and atmospheric pressure. At an applied potential of 0.023 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, the rate of ammonia formation was 1.25 X 10(-8) mmol mg(-1) s(-1) at an overpotential of just 34 mV. This rate increased to 2.7 X 10(-7) mmol mg(-1) s(-1) at -0.577 V. The chronoamperometric experiments on Fe2O3/TiO2/C clearly confirmed that Fe2O3 along with TiO2 shows superior nitrogen reduction reaction activity compared to Fe2O3 alone. Experimental parameters such as temperature and applied potential have a significant influence on the rate of ammonia formation. The activation energy of nitrogen reduction on the employed catalyst was found to be 25.8 kJ mol(-1). Real-time direct electrochemical mass spectrometry analysis was used to monitor the composition of the evolved gases at different electrode potentials.
The synthesis of a VS4-140 material and its high performance in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction are reported. VS4-140 shows the highest NH3 yield of 46.74 mu g h(-1) mgcat(-1) with a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 8.5% at -0.59 V (vs RHE), superior to VS2. By using first-principles calculations, we identify the different behaviors of VS2 and VS4-140 regarding both the reaction mechanism and the associated electronic origins. The reduction of nitrogen proceeds preferentially via the alternative pathway with VS4-140. This work points out the promising potential of vanadium tetrasulfide in nitrogen reduction and provides ideas for the design of more efficient catalysts.
Nitrogen reduction conversion into ammonia has received considerable attention and shown application potential in materials science. This work presents the results of theoretical scanning based on comprehensive first principle calculations of bimetallic alloys with the general formula MN, where M and N are transition metals that can be used as electrocatalysts for high-performance N-2 reduction. To date, no detailed reaction mechanism has been verified for the production rates in commercial applications. This work of calculations reveals that N-2 can be reduced to ammonia (NH3) on palladium-gold (PdAu) and copper-tin (CuSn) bimetallic alloy catalysts with a relatively low limiting potential and activation barrier compared with other bimetallic alloy catalysts. The nitrogen reduction reaction is highly selective and active compared to the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). This work provides promising guidance for designing efficient single-atom catalysts for the electroreduction of N-2. Nickel-cerium (NiCe) bimetallic alloy catalyst was found to have a low activation energy of 0.49 eV during the third hydrogenation step. Scaling relationships were found to exist between the binding energy and limiting potential of NxHy intermediate species in each elementary step on the bimetallic alloy surfaces. This work also provides a promising way to explore and design efficient N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) catalysts and identify the reaction mechanism for improving and controlling catalytic performance in practical applications. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising route to replace the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, weak nitrogen-surface interaction impedes the reaction efficiency and demands better understanding of the catalyst surface chemistry. Here, we expand the design rules for NRR to include the low-energy smooth surfaces, in contrast to conventional wisdom favoring irregular or high-index facets, grain boundaries, and edge sites. Our Ni3S4 catalyst with low-energy facets achieves a 6.8 +/- 3.3% Faradaic efficiency (FE) for NRR, compared to 1.9 +/- 3.6% for a control of the same crystal structure and composition but with a more disordered surface. First-principles calculations reveal that the synthetic conditions allow choosing whether Ni-rich or S-rich surfaces would be more stable, which affects the coordination of the active Ni site and its reactivity. In addition, the combination of Lewis acid and Lewis base sites allows separating the adsorption of different reactants, resulting in a suppression of the competing hydrogen evolution reaction.
Electrochemical reduction is an eco-friendly alternative for energy-saving artificial N-2 fixation. The development of this process requires efficient N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) electrocatalysts to overcome the challenge with N-2 activation. We show that a Cr2O3 nanoparticle-reduced graphene oxide hybrid (Cr2O3-rGO) is as an outstanding catalyst for electrochemical N-2-to-NH3 conversion under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, Cr2O3-rGO achieves a high NH3 yield of 33.3 mu g h(-1) mg (-1)(cat). at -0.7 V vs RHE and a high Faradaic efficiency of 7.33% at -0.6 V vs RHE, with excellent selectivity for NH3 synthesis and stability. Density functional theory calculations were executed to gain further insight into the mechanisms.
Transition metal nitrogenous complexes have been extensively studied for electrochemical synthesis of ammonia due to their great capabilities in adsorbing and activating nitrogen molecules; yet the improvement of their catalytic performance is still a big challenge. Herein, a series of novel bimetallic Fe, Mo-N nanosheet arrays (FeMo-N) supported on nickel foam were fabricated through a facile hydrothermal-pyrolysis method, which were used as electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). It was discovered that the catalyst Fe1Mo1-N exhibited a promising performance with a NH3 yield rate of 46.64 mu g mg(cat.)(-1) h(-1) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 1.12% at -0.8 V vs. RHE, which also demonstrated excellent selectivity and thermal stability. The specific two-dimensional nanosheet morphology of the catalyst was believed to be the major reason contributing to the prominent electrochemical performance. The XPS characterization and NH3 yield study at different N contents in the M-N bond further revealed that FeMo-N species are the primary active centers for the NRR, and the N content forming the M-N bond is closely related to the catalytic activity.
Elucidating the elementary kinetics of nitrogen reduction on transition metal surfaces can guide the search for materials capable of efficiently catalysing electrochemical ammonia synthesis at ambient conditions. Density functional theory calculations are used here to explore the elementary kinetics of nitrogen reduction and hydrogen evolution on W(110). All proton-electron transfer barriers are calculated at-0.7 V vs. SHE, where the cathodic potential is explicitly modelled using a solvation bilayer of water with hydronium ions. The protonation of adsorbed NH is determined to be rate-limiting for nitrogen reduction, with a barrier of 0.65 eV. The same reaction step is potential-limiting based on the thermochemistry of adsorbed intermediates only, showing that thermochemical calculations suffice to predict catalytic trends for nitrogen reduction. The largest barrier found for hydrogen evolution at high hydrogen coverage is 0.36 eV. Thus, hydrogen evolution is expected to dominate over nitrogen reduction on W(110) at negative potentials. (c) 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical reduction has emerged as an environmentally-benign and sustainable approach alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for artificial N-2 fixation at ambient conditions, while the challenge associated with N-2 activation underlines the demand of efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this work, Nb2O5 nanofiber is experimentally proved to act as a non-noble-metal NRR electrocatalyst for N-2 conversion to NH3 with high activity and selectivity. When tested in 0.1 M HCl, such Nb2O5 nanofiber achieves a high average NH3 yield (43.6 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and a high Faradaic efficiency (9.26%) at - 0.55 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, rivaling the performances of most reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts under ambient conditions and even comparable with those under high temperature and pressure. Notably, it also shows high stability during electrolysis and recycling test. The catalytic mechanism of NRR on Nb2O5 (181) surface is further discussed by density functional theory calculations.
The traditional NH3 production method (Haber-Bosch process) is currently complemented by electrochemical synthesis at ambient conditions, but the rather low selectivity (as indicated by the Faradaic efficiency) for the electrochemical reduction of molecular N-2 into NH3 impedes the progress. Here, we present a powerful method to significantly boost the Faradaic efficiency of Au electrocatalysts to 67.8% for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by increasing their electron density through the construction of inorganic donor-acceptor couples of Ni and Au nanoparticles. The unique role of the electron-rich Au centers in facilitating the fixation and activation of N-2 was also investigated via theoretical simulation methods and then confirmed by experimental results. The highly coupled Au and Ni nanoparticles supported on nitrogen-doped carbon are stable for reuse and long-term performance of the NRR, making the electrochemical process more sustainable for practical application.
The electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia under mild conditions is a promising alternative to the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process that operates at high temperature and high pressure. Gaining an understanding of the catalytic processes and mechanisms is of great importance to a rational design of desirable electrocatalysts. In this work, based on a detailed investigation of the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) pathways for a dual-atom Fe-2 species on graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4), we have explored a few external means of regulating the catalytic properties of Fe-2. The results demonstrate that applying appropriate tensile stress to the g-C3N4 substrate or doping g-C3N4 with electropositive Na atoms can effectively reduce the overpotential of the NRR, both of which originates from the relative destabilization of the N-2 adsorbate but via different mechanisms. Here, the former breaks the scaling relations between the *N-2 and *HNN adsorption energies via a geometric effect, while the latter comes from a charging effect. The above two means may also improve the reaction selectivity of NRR in competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). This work may shed new light on designing and improving electrocatalysts toward the nitrogen reduction reaction.
Five noble metal catalysts (Pt/C, Ir/C, Pd/C, Ru/C, and Au/C) are evaluated for electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) to produce ammonia in both proton exchange membrane (PEM) and hydroxide exchange membrane (HEM) electrolyzers (PEMELs and HEMELs). The competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is found to be the dominant reaction on all catalysts tested in both PEMELS and HEMELs, which is consistent with recent computational predictions that metallic catalysts are unlikely to be selective for ENRR. With the increase of applied potentials, the rate of HER increase significantly, which suppresses the ENRR, leading to significant decreases of faradaic efficiencies. Leaching of quaternary ammonium from HEM is found to interfere with ammonia quantification, which necessitates a pretreatment protocol. Due to the relatively slow kinetics of HER in alkaline solution, faradaic efficiencies in HEMELs are generally higher than those in PEMELs. We believe that these results provide a solid baseline for future research on ENRR in both PEMELs and HEMELs. (c) The Author(s) 2017. Published by ECS.
Ammonia (NH3) plays a significant role in fertilizer production to support the ever-increasing population and serves as a renewable energy carrier as well as a zero-carbon emission fuel. Currently, NH3 is produced by a non-sustainable and highly energy-intensive process. Among the available alternatives, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reactions (NRR) has attracted attention due to the compact and on-site electrolytic cells that can operate from solar or wind power under ambient conditions but still suffer from relatively low Faraday efficiency and NH3 yields. For the commercialization of electrocatalytic NRR, a catalytic material demonstrating a FE-50% and an NH3 yield rate of-10-6 mol s- 1 cm -2 is suggested. Various strategies, including amorphization, structural engineering, catalyst-support interactions and hydrogen evolution suppression over catalytic mate-rials, have been presented to enhance the electrocatalytic NRR. In this review, the current progress of various identified NRR electrocatalysts (including metal carbides, nitrides, oxides, phosphides, sulfides, selenides, bo-rides, bimetallic materials, metal-organic frameworks, and metal-free materials) is summarized by collectively focusing on both theoretical analysis and experimental investigations. For further development of rational cat-alysts, a collaboration of theoretical and experimental studies, advanced characterization techniques, under-standing of the electrocatalytic mechanism, efficient screening systems, and precise detection methods are needed. Specially designed electrocatalysts can improve NRR activity by regulating the cathodic reactions. The challenges and future perspectives have been described with special emphasis on various transition metal-based electrocatalysts for N2 fixation.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides a sustainable route for NH3 synthesis. However, the process is plagued by the strong N(sic)N triple bond and high reaction barrier. Modification of catalyst surface to increase N-2 adsorption and activation is crucial. Herein, copper nanoparticles are loaded on the oxygen-deficient TiO2, which exhibits an enhanced NRR performance with NH3 yield of 13.6 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1) at -0.5 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and Faradaic efficiency of 17.9% at -0.4 V versus RHE compared to the pristine TiO2. The enhanced performance is ascribed to the higher electrochemically active surface area, promoted electron transfer, and increased electron density originated from the strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) between Cu nanoparticles and oxygen-deficient TiO2. The SMSI effect also results in lopsided local charge distribution, which polarizes the adsorbed N-2 molecules for better activation. This work provides a facile strategy toward the electrocatalyst design for efficient NRR under ambient conditions.
The electrochemical reduction of N-2 is a promising reaction candidate for the ammonia synthesis process. Density functional theory simulations are carried out to study the reaction thermodynamics and kinetics for a better understanding of the catalytic performance of Fe, Mo, Rh, and Ru electrodes. The distal pathway is the most likely reaction pathway for nitrogen reduction on transition metal surfaces according to the computed reaction free energies. The onset potential of nitrogen reduction on Fe(110) (-0.49 V) and Mo(110) (-0.52 V) is determined by the hydrogenation of NH to NH2, which is more positive than the onset potential on the Ru(0001) (-0.76 V) and Rh(111) (-0.98 V) surfaces attributed to the hydrogenation of N-2 to NNH. In particular, the initial hydrogenation of N-2 on Mo(111) is a spontaneous process due to the strong interaction of N-2 and NNH with the Mo(110) surface. Electronic structure analyses including Bader charge analysis and projected crystal orbital Hamilton populations are performed to interpret the difference in adsorption energy of key intermediates on the four metal surfaces. It is found that both N-2 and NNH species have the strongest interaction with Mo(110) leading to the initial activation of N-2 on the Mo(110) surface being a spontaneous process. A kinetic model based on the Marcus theory is applied to calculate the potential-dependent reaction barrier of electrochemical hydrogenation steps of the N-2 reduction reaction. The rate-determining step is the fifth hydrogenation step *NH -> *NH2 on Fe(110) and Mo(110) surfaces, and the first hydrogenation step *N-2 -> *NNH on Rh(111) and Ru(0001) surfaces. The predicted electrocatalytic activity from the potential-dependent rate constant of the rate-determining step on the four metal electrodes decreases in sequence: Fe(110) > Mo(110) > Ru(0001) > Rh(111).
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis could provide a sustainable and efficient alternative to the energy intensive Haber-Bosch process. Development of an active and selective N-2 electroreduction catalyst requires mechanism determination to aid in connecting the catalyst composition and structure to performance. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are used to examine the elementary step energetics of associative N-2 reduction mechanisms on two low index Fe surfaces. Interfacial water molecules in the Heyrovsky-like mechanism help lower some of the elementary activation barriers. Electrode potential dependent barriers show that cathodic potentials below -1.5 V-RHE (reversible hydrogen electrode) are necessary to give a significant rate of N-2 electroreduction. DFT barriers suggest a larger overpotential than expected based on elementary reaction free energies. Linear Bronsted-Evans-Polanyi relationships do not hold across N-H formation steps on these surfaces, further confirming that explicit barriers should be considered in DFT studies of the nitrogen reduction reaction. Published under license by AIP Publishing.
A freestanding 3D graphdiyne-cobalt nitride (GDY/Co2N) with a highly active and selective interface is fabricated for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ECNRR). Density function theory calculations reveal that the interface-bonded GDY contributes an unique p-electronic character to optimally modify the Co-N compound surface bonding, which generates as-observed superior electronic activity for NRR catalysis at the interface region. Experimentally, at atmospheric pressure and room temperature, the electrocatalyst creates a new record of ammonia yield rate (YNH3 ) and Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 219.72 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and 58.60 %, respectively, in acidic conditions, higher than reported electrocatalysts. Such a catalyst is promising to generate new concepts, new knowledge, and new phenomena in electrocatalytic research, driving rapid development in the field of electrocatalysis.
Titanium-based catalysts are needed to achieve electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to NH3 with a large NH3 yield and a high Faradaic efficiency (FE). One of the cheapest and most abundant metals on earth, iron, is an effective dopant for greatly improving the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) performance of TiO2 nanoparticles in ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion. In 0.5 m LiClO4, Fe-doped TiO2 catalyst attains a high FE of 25.6 % and a large NH3 yield of 25.47 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.40 V versus a reversible hydrogen electrode. This performance compares favorably to those of all previously reported titanium- and iron-based NRR electrocatalysts in aqueous media. The catalytic mechanism is further probed with theoretical calculations.
Electrocatalyst plays animportant role in electrochemical ammonia synthesis by determining the nitrogen reduction reaction pathway. Featuring the inherent half-filled 3d orbitals, ion-based alloy electrocatalysts have been attracting much more attention owing to the controllable driving force to adsorb and activate N equivalent to N bonds. Besides supplying unoccupied d-orbital to accommodate lone-pair electrons to facilitate nitrogen adsorption, donating d-orbital electrons to nitrogen antibonding orbitals to dissociate N equivalent to N bond is demandedas well. By palladium (Pd) to synthesize PdFe3 nano-alloy, numerous Fe 3d orbitals can be reconstructed via charge polarization between Fe and Pd, simultaneously lowering corresponding work functions. Meanwhile, the positively charged Fesites in PdFe3 can strengthen suppress the proton adsorption by electrostatic repulsion. A considerably optimized ammonia production rate of 29.07 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1) and Faradic efficiency of 22.8% are accomplished at a low overpotential of -0.2 V vs. RHE. Density functional theory combined with in-situ ATR-FTIR results confirmthe electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction follows the associative distalmechanism and the electron-deficient Fe induced through Pd facilitates significantly lowering the first-step-protonation energy barrier of only 0.07 eV (*N-2+ *H ->*NNH).
Electrocatalysis nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is expected to achieve sustainable clean and sustainable NH3 production. Owing to the chemical inertness of N2, the design of efficient catalysts is a critical issue. In this work, we propose micelle-assisted replacement method to in situ synthesize mesoporous Au3Rh film on Ni foam (mAu3Rh/NF). Because of the bimetallic mesoporous and binder-free structures, mAu3Rh/NF obtains high Faraday efficiency of 23.84% and NH3 yield of 26.29 mu g h-1 mg-1cat. for NRR in 0.1 M Na2SO4 at - 0.1 V, outperforming other counterparts with different Au/Rh ratios. This micelle-assisted synthesis method is universal to synthesize high-efficiency mesoporous noble films for NRR and beyond.
Electrochemical reduction of N-2 to NH3 provides an alternative strategy to replace the industrial Haber-Bosch process for facile and sustainable production of NH3. The development of efficient electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is highly desired. Herein, a micelle-assisted electrodeposition method is presented for the direct fabrication of porous Au film on Ni foam (pAu/NF). Benefiting from its interconnected porous architectonics, the pAu/NF exhibits superior NRR performance with a high NH3 yield rate of 9.42 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and a superior Faradaic efficiency of 13.36% at -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode under the neutral electrolyte (0.1 m Na2SO4). The proposed micelle-assisted electrodeposition strategy is highly valuable for future design of active NRR catalysts with desired compositions toward various electrocatalysis fields.
Electrocatalytic reduction of N(2)is a promising alternative technology for the green and sustainable production of NH3. The development of this process is highly dependent on the identification of active electrocatalysts. Herein, a self-supported mesoporous Au-based film with sulfur decoration on Ni foam (S-mAu film/NF) has been synthesized by a micelle assembly replacement route. The obtained S-mAu film/NF exhibits superior electrochemical performance for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), resulting in a high NH3 yield (22.7 mu g h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1)) and Faraday efficiency (17.2%) under neutral conditions. This work offers a facile strategy for the synthesis of a self-supported mesoporous architecture with surface sulfur modification, which is favourable to the improvement of the electrocatalytic NRR performance.
Electrocatalysts play a vital role in electroreduction of N-2 to NH3 (NRR); however, large-scale industrial application of electrochemical NRR is still limited by low selectivity and poor activity, owing to the sluggish reaction kinetics. Herein, a high-performance NRR catalyst consisting of atomically dispersed iron single site embedded in porous nitrogen-doped carbon nanofibers with abundant carbon defects (D-FeN/C) is reported. The D-FeN/C catalyst achieves a remarkably high NH3 yield rate of approximate to 24.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 15.8% at -0.4 V in alkaline electrolyte, which outperforms almost all reported Fe-based NRR catalysts. Structural characterization manifests that the isolated Fe center is coordinated with four N atoms and assisted by extra carbon defects. In situ attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared results and kinetics isotope effects demonstrate that the intrinsic carbon defects dramatically enhance the water dissociation process and accelerate the protonation kinetics of D-FeN/C for NRR. Theoretical investigations unveil atomic Fe-N-4 catalytic sites together with intrinsic carbon defects synergistically reduce the energy barrier of the protonation process and promote the proton-coupled reaction kinetics, thus boosting the whole NRR catalytic performance.
Using tetrahexahedral gold nanorods as a heterogeneous electrocatalyst, an electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction is shown to be possible at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, with a high Faradic efficiency up to 4.02% at -0.2 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (1.648 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and 0.102 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) for NH3 and N2H4 center dot H2O, respectively).
Green NH3 production by direct electrocatalytic synthesis from N-2 and H2O is still a challenging reaction, which requires us to better understand the nature of the active materials. We show here that iron oxide (Fe2O3) nanoparticles (supported over carbon nanotubes, CNTs) become more active than the corresponding samples after reduction to form Fe- or Fe2N-supported nanoparticles, both indicated as active species in the thermal catalytic reduction of N-2 to ammonia. Characterization data, however, indicate that even for these Fe- and Fe2N-CNT samples, obtained from Fe2O3-CNT by reduction in H-2 or NH3 at 500 degrees C, the active species responsible for N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) at low applied potential (-0.5 V vs RHE) are the same, that is, small (<1-2 nm) iron oxide nanoparticles that are not detected by XRD, but evidenced by XPS and which amount could be correlated to the rate of ammonia formation. This species is stable for at least 24 h of electrocatalytic flow tests. However, at higher applied potentials, sintering/transformation of this species occurs, with loss of the electrocatalytic activity, and Fe2N nanoparticles may also be reduced in situ, forming ammonia, but with irreversible deactivation.
The electrochemical NRR to produce ammonia under ambient conditions represents an attractive prospect in nitrogen fixation which can greatly ease the energy crisis and environmental pollution. However, suffering from awful N-2 activation results in low ammonia yield rate and Faradaic efficiency in electrochemical NRR. In this work, we devote to construct FeNi heteronuclear sites in FeNi-PBA with accurate coordination structure to facilitate N-2 activation employing a side-on configuration. Control experiments have verified N-2 activation on FeNi heteronuclear sites was enhanced compared with that on FeFe sites. Meanwhile, the particle size of PBA was decreased to boost active sites. FeNiPBA nanocrystals with ultrasmall size (10 +/- 2.8 nm) through microwave-assisted synthesis achieve an ammonia yield rate of 17.7 mgNH(3) gcat(-1) h(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 27.5% at a bias of -0.2 V (V vs. RHE) in 0.05 M H2SO4 solution. Faradaic efficiency achieved in this work well exceeds than that of most Fe based transition metal electrocatalysts. (C) 2021 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction offers a promising alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for sustainable NH3 synthesis at ambient conditions, but it needs efficient catalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Here, we report that FeOOH quantum dots decorated graphene sheet acts as a superior catalyst toward enhanced electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to NH3 under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M LiClO4, this hybrid attains a large NH3 yield rate and a high Faradaic efficiency of 27.3 mu g center dot h(-1)center dot mg(cat.)(-1) and 14.6% at -0.4 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively, rivalling the current efficiency of all Fe-based NRR electrocatalysts in aqueous media. It also shows strong durability during the electrolytic process.
Electrochemical reduction offers a carbon-neutral process for energy-saving NH3 synthesis under ambient conditions, but this process involves difficulty in breaking the strong N?N bond of inert N-2 and the challenge of N-2 activation, underlining the need for high-performance electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Herein, we report our recent effort in this direction by in situ hydrothermally growing a Nb2O5 nanowire array on carbon cloth (Nb2O5/CC) as a self-standing NRR catalyst electrode toward artificial N-2 fixation with high selectivity under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, such Nb2O5/CC achieves an NH3 formation rate of 1.58 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and a high faradaic efficiency of 2.26% at -0.60 V, rivaling the performances of most reported non-noble metal NRR electrocatalysts in neutral medium. Notably, this catalyst also shows high electrochemical stability during electrolysis and recycling tests. Density functional theory calculations reveal that a distal associative route is involved in the reaction pathways during the NRR over the Nb2O5 (001) facet. This work would open up an exciting new avenue to explore the design of self-standing 3D electrodes made of transition metal oxides for the NRR and other applications.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction offers a vital approach for nitrogen fixation in a green and sustainable way, but the low solubility of nitrogen and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction still impede its further development. Inspired by the structure of gas-trapping hydrophobic hair on a subaquatic spider and the function of hemocyanin in its blood, in the present work, an aerophilic-hydrophilic heterostructured electrode is constructed by using aerophilic ultrathin porous Bi5O7I nanotubes and hydrophilic carbon spheres. Besides, the electrolyte is functionalized with suspended ultrathin porous Bi5O7I nanotubes. The Faradaic efficiency is increased from 5.19 % to 13.42 %, and the ammonia yield is boosted from 7.96 to 31.46 mg h(-1)m(-2) by the new way at -0.4 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode under ambient conditions. Furthermore, the highest yield rate of 85.45 mg h(-1) m(-2) is achieved with a configured flow cell. This work presents a promising biomimetic strategy to boost electrocatalytic N-2 fixation proceed from electrode and electrolyte.
NH3 production heavily relies on the traditional Haber-Bosch process, which is not only energy-intensive (1-3% of human's energy consumption) but also carbon-intensive (1.6% of global CO2 emissions). Electrochemical reduction offers a sustainable and eco-friendly alternative for NH3 synthesis. Despite tremendous efforts, developing N2 reduction reaction (NRR) electrocatalysts with high activity and durability remains a great challenge. Here, we firstly report a MoS2 nanosheet-reduced graphene oxide hybrid (MoS2-rGO) as a highperformance catalyst for the NRR. In 0.1 M LiClO4, this catalyst attains a high faradaic efficiency of 4.58% and a highNH(3) yield of 24.82 mg h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.45 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, such MoS2-rGO shows high electrochemical stability during electrolysis and recycling tests. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the potential-determining step of the proton-electron coupling transferring process is *NHNH2 -> *NH2NH2, and the following hydrogenation steps are feasible.
MXene-based catalysts exhibit extraordinary advantages for many catalysis reactions, such as the hydrogen evolution and oxygen reduction reactions. However, MXenes exhibit inadequate catalytic activity for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) because they are typically terminated with inactive functional groups, F* and OH*, which mask the active metal sites for N-2 binding. Here we modified the surface termination of MXene (Ti3C2Tx) nanosheets to achieve high surface catalytic reactivity for the NRR by ironing out inactive F*/OH* terminals to expose more active sites and by introducing Fe to greatly reduce the surface work function. The optimally performing catalyst (MXene/TiFeOx-700) achieved excellent Faradaic efficiency of 25.44% and an NH3 yield rate of 2.19 mu g/cm(2).h (21.9 mu g/mg(cat).h), outperforming all reported MXene-based NRR catalysts. Our work provides a feasible strategy for rationally improving the surface reactivity of MXene-based catalysts for efficient electrochemical conversion of N-2 to NH3.
High-polluting industrial ammonia synthesis runs counter to the intentions of a low-carbon society. In contrast, the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is expected to provide fascinating and broad prospects for green ammonia synthesis, which urgently requires efficient and low-cost catalysts. Although it has been proven that two-dimensional (2D) transition metal carbides and carbonitrides (MXenes) have great potential for NRR, there is still need to further improve their activity. In this work, a co-doping strategy was employed to design the electronic configuration and structural mechanic of Ti3C2Tx catalysts for efficient NRR. As expected, the synergistic effect of N and S dopants in Ti3C2Tx (NS-Ti3C2Tx) significantly improves the electron/ion transport capacity and increases the catalytic active sites. Specifically, the as-prepared NS-Ti3C2Tx nanosheets demonstrated an excellent electrocatalytic stability with NH3 yield of 34.23 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.55 V vs. RHE, and a Faraday efficiency of 6.6% in 0.05 M H2SO4. Therefore, this work opens up a new research approach for preparing high-performance catalysts for energy storage applications through efficient nitrogen fixation technology. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction is recognized as a green and sustainable approach for ammonia (NH3) synthesis alternative to the traditional industrial method - the Haber-Bosch process, while an efficient electrocatalysis of such a process is a prerequisite for N(2)reduction. Developing a cost-effective electrocatalyst for the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions with an excellent catalytic performance remains a great challenge. Here, we report a facile hydrothermal reaction to synthesize Fe-doped manganese oxide (MnO2) with a nanoneedle morphology as a cost-effective electrocatalyst for the NRR. It is verified that Fe plays a critical role in the NRR. This catalyst shows an excellent catalytic performance with a high faradaic efficiency of 16.8% and a high NH(3)formation rate of 39.2 mu g h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1)at -0.29 Vvs.the reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4, which are much higher than those of all reported Mn-based NRR catalysts and many other previously reported catalysts. This catalyst also shows excellent durability during electrolysis and recycling tests. In addition, the electrocatalyst mechanism is also assessed in combination with density functional theory.
With the use of traditional Haber-Bosch N-2 fixation, a huge amount of CO2 emission bring a huge burden to the environment. Electrochemical N-2 reduction provides an environmental-friendly and sustainable alternative to NH3 synthesis at ambient conditions. Herein, we report our recent experimental finding that Ag composited with TiO2 can greatly improve the N-2 reduction reaction performance of TiO2 toward ambient conversion. In 0.1 M Na2SO4 (pH=7), such electrocatalyst achieves a large NH3 yield rate of 14.88 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) with a Faradaic efficiency of 6.2 % at -0.70 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode. Besides, it also demonstrates high electrochemical and structural stability for NH3 generation.
For N-2-to-NH3 fixation, electrocatalytic N-2 reduction has become one promising alternative to Haber-Bosch process for its superior environmental protection and low-energy consumption. During this electrochemical conversion, adopting a suitable catalytic material is frequently the first consideration that involves in cost and production efficiency. Herein, Ag nanoparticles-reduced graphene oxide hybrid (Ag NPs-rGO) is designed as a novel Ag-based catalyst that exhibits high-efficiency electrocatalytic performance for N-2-to-NH3 conversion. Introducing rGO into the catalyst results in a significant improvement of catalytic activity, for the advanced electrical conductivity of rGO and dispersed Ag NPs anchored on this support material. In a 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, the Ag NPs-rGO delivers Faradaic efficiency of 3.60% and NH3 yield of 18.86 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. at - 0.7 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). By contrast, the Ag NPs attains inferior Faradaic efficiency of 2.25% with NH3 yield of 9.43 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. (- 0.7 V vs RHE). The Ag NPs-rGO also maintains good stability and sustainability during the electrocatalytic process.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction to NH3 offers a mild and feasible alternative to Haber-Bosch NH3 synthesis. Designing a promising nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalyst under alkaline condition is highly desirable due to the advantages of alkaline electrolyte in fast charge transfer and limiting the hydrogen evolution reaction. However, the ammonia yield rate of iron single-atom catalysts is lower, usually below 40 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. Herein, the Fe sites supported on boron, nitrogen co-doped carbon with atomic dispersion (Fe-B/NC) catalyst was synthesized by the pre-polymerization and pyrolysis processes. This catalyst exhibits a NH3 yield 88.7 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)cat at 0.45 V (vs. RHE) an alkaline electrolyte, which is greater than the values reported in the literature. Combining experimental analysis with DFT calculations, we demonstrate that the introduction of B coordination breaks the symmetric electron distribution of the FeN4 strategy to regulate its N-2 adsorption, activation and thus the NRR performance. The synergistic effect between B and Fe can effectively activate the adsorbed N-2 molecules to achieve excellent NRR performance.
Electroreduction of N-2 to NH3 at ambient conditions using renewable electricity is promising, but developing efficient electrocatalysts is still challenging due to the inertness of N equivalent to N bonds. Layer double hydroxides (LDHs) composed of first-row transition metals with empty d-orbitals are theoretically promising for N-2 electroreduction (NRR) but rarely reported. Herein, hollow NiCo-LDH nanocages with different Ni/Co ratios were prepared, and their electronic structures and atomic arrangements were critical. The synergetic mechanisms of Ni and Co ions were revealed, and the optimized catalytic sites were proposed. Besides, in-situ Raman spectroscopy and N-15(2) isotopic labeling studies were applied to detect reaction intermediates and confirm the origin of NH3. As a result, high NH3 yield of 52.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and faradaic efficiency of 11.5 % were obtained at -0.7 V, which are top-ranking among Co/Ni-based NRR electrocatalysts. This work elucidates the structure-activity relationship between LDHs and NRR and is instructive for rational design of LDH-based electrocatalysts.
Electrocatalytic reduction of N-2 to NH3 under an ambient atmosphere is highly desirable and extremely critical for energy-efficient nitrogen utilization. Inspired by the natural MoFe protein-based enzyme, the nitrogenase, we exploited this electrochemical process with a unique two-dimensional catalyst, namely, molybdenum carbide (Mo2C). The catalyst is synthesized through a chemical vapor deposition method, with a highly orientated (200) facet of the alpha-Mo2C phase. A remarkable Faradaic efficiency as high as 40.2% has been achieved on the (200) faceted alpha-Mo2C during the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Density functional theory calculations confirm that rate-determining steps *NNH2 -> NNH3 and *NH -> *NH2 experience a low energy barrier on the (200) surface following the proton-electron coupled, distal associated mechanism. To protect Mo from leaching during the NRR process, we also grew layers of graphene on top of Mo2C, forming a chemically enduring two-dimensional heterostructured electrode.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has emerged as a promising renewable energy source and a feasible strategy as an alternative to Haber-Bosch ammonia (NH3) synthesis. However, finding an efficient and cost-effective robust catalyst to activate and cleave the extremely strong triple bond in nitrogen (N-2) for electrocatalytic NRR is still a challenge. Herein, a FeNi@CNS nanocomposite as an efficient catalyst for N-2 fixation under ambient conditions is designed. This FeNi@CNS nanocomposite was prepared by a simple water bath process and post-calcination. The FeNi@CNS is demonstrated to be a highly efficient NRR catalyst, which exhibits better NRR performance with exceptional Faradaic efficiency of 9.83% and an NH3 yield of 16.52 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) in 0.1 M Na2SO4 aqueous solution. Besides, high stability and reproducibility with consecutive 6 cycles for two hours are also demonstrated throughout the NRR electrocatalytic process for 12 h. Meanwhile, the FeNi@CNS catalyst encourages N-2 adsorption and activation as well as effectively suppressing competitive HER. Therefore, this earth-abundant FeNi@CNS catalyst with a subtle balance of activity and stability has excellent potential in NRR industrial applications. (C)2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of The editorial office of Journal of Materials Science & Technology.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), which can produce ammonia from N2 and H2O under ambient conditions, has emerged as a promising sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch (H-B) process. However, their unsatisfied conversion efficiency and selectivity severely restrict the real utilization of NRR, owing to the stubborn triple bond in the N2 molecule and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Here, inspired from the local microenvironment of the nitrogenase, we report for the first time a facile and general strategy to boost the NRR selectivity and activity through the self-assembled monolayer (SAM) of hexanethiol (HEX) on a series of metal electrocatalysts (Cu, Au, Pt, Pd and Ni). Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations suggest that the HEX SAM provides a hydrophobic microenvironment to impede the diffusion and adsorption of water molecules and promote that of N2 molecules, thus inhibiting HER and simultaneously improving the NRR performance. Notably, among all the prepared samples, the highest Faradic efficiency (FE) of 50.5% is achieved on Cu-HEX with NH3 formation rate (R) of 1.2 mu g h-1 cm- 2. Remarkably, for the HER-favored Pt catalyst, the highest R of 26.4 mu g h-1 cm-2 is also achieved on Pt-HEX with FE of 1.8% under 1 cm2 of electrode area. The present strategy not only represents a general diffusion-controlled method to engineer highperformance NRR electrocatalysts, but also provides a new insight into the effect of surface chemistry of catalysts on the NRR process and kinetics.
The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) into NH3, especially powered by clean and renewable electricity, is a promising alternative to the capital- and energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, the inert N N bond and the frantic competition of the hydrogen evolution reaction lead to a poor NH3 yield rate and faradaic efficiency (FE). Here, we in situ construct a series of two-dimension core/shell V2O3/VN nanomeshes with a gradient nitride-layer thickness. Among them, V2O3/VN-2 exhibits the highest FE of 34.9%, an excellent NH3 yield rate of 59.7 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), and outstanding cycle stability, exceeding those of most of the NRR electrocatalysts reported to date. First-principles calculations reveal that the d-band center of VN shifts up in a nearly linear manner with the decrease of nitride-layer thickness, and V2O3/VN-2 with a d-band center closer to the Fermi level can strengthen the d-2 pi* coupling between the catalyst and N2 molecule, notably facilitating the N-2-into-NH3 conversion.
To perform the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under milder conditions for sustainable ammonia production, electrocatalysts should exhibit high selectivity, activity, and durability. However, the key restrictions are the highly stable N N triple bond and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), which make it difficult to adsorb and activate N-2 on the surface of electrocatalysts, leading to a low ammonia yield and Faraday efficiency. Inspired by the enzymatic nitrogenase process and using the Fe-Mo as the active center, here we report supported Fe2Mo3O8/XC-72 as an effective and durable electrocatalyst for the NRR. Fe2Mo3O8/XC-72 exhibited NRR activity with an NH3 yield of 30.4 mu g.h(-1).mg(-1) (-0.3 V) and a Faraday efficiency of 8.2% (-0.3 V). Theoretical calculations demonstrated that the electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation mechanism involved the Fe atom in the Fe2Mo3O8/XC-72 electrocatalyst acting as the main active site in the enzymatic pathway (*NH2 ->*NH3), which activated nitrogen molecules and promoted the NRR performance.
Ammonia is a key feedstock of fertilizers for farming and convenient hydrogen carrier as an emerging clean fuel, but industrial ammonium production process, Haber-Bosch reaction, is an energy-intensive process, consuming 1%-2% of global energy and producing 3% global CO2. Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is one of the most promising routes to realize highly efficient NH3 production under ambient conditions. However, up to now, few precious-metal-free electrocatalysts with desirable catalytic performance have been explored. In this work, Mo2C nanodots anchored on three-dimensional ultrathin macroporous carbon (Mo2C@3DUM-C) framework is developed toward significantly enhanced nitrogen reduction reaction. Thanks to the special structural design of 3D ultrathin macroporous carbon and highly active and stable Mo2C toward N-2 electrochemical reduction, the Mo2C@3DUM-C framework exhibits a high Faradaic efficiency of 9.5% for NH3 production at -0.20 V and the yield rate reaches 30.4 mu g h(-1)mgM02C-1. Further electrochemical characterizations reveal the enhanced electron transfer and increased electrochemical surface area in the 3D macroporous carbon framework. Moreover, the Mo2C@3DUM-C electrocatalysts hold high catalytic stability after long-term NRR test. The temperature-dependent yield rate of NH3 demonstrates that the activation energy of nitrogen reduction on the employed catalyst was calculated to be 28.1 kJ mol(-1). Our proposed earth-abundant Mo2C@3DUM-C demonstrates an alternative insight into developing efficient and stable nitrogen fixation catalysts in acids as alternatives to noble metal catalysts.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is a new method for sustainable NH3 production, which has attracted much attention in recent years. However, the low Faradaic efficiency due to the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and inert N equivalent to N triple bond activation hinders its practical application. To find highly efficient electrocatalysts with excellent activity, stability and selectivity, we have studied a series of transition metal dimers (TM2) loaded on poly triazine imide, (PTI) a crystalline carbon nitride, by density functional theory calculations. The results show that most of the metal dimers have good stability. Finally, among 26 homonuclear diatomic catalysts, Mo-2@PTI, Re-2@PTI, and Pt-2@PTI exhibit strong capability for suppressing HER, with a favorable limiting potential of -0.53, -0.36, and -0.63 V, respectively, and hence, can be used as efficient electrocatalysts for NRR. In this study, a homonuclear diatomic eNRR catalyst was designed and screened to provide not only a theoretical basis for the experiments but also an alternative approach for sustainable synthesis of ammonia.
As a carbon-neutral alternative to the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical N-2 reduction offers an eco-friendly and sustainable approach to produce NH3, but it needs active electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this communication, we report that vanadium carbide nanoparticles/carbon sphere (V8C7/C) acts as a high-performance NRR electrocatalyst under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, such V8C7/C achieves a large NH3 yield of 34.62 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 12.20% at -0.40 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, V8C7/C also shows both strong electrochemical stability and high NH3 selectivity.
Ammonia synthesis, one of the most challenging chemical synthesis processes, plays a vital role in the development of human industry and agriculture. Compared with the industrial Harber-Bosch ammonia process with huge energy input and high CO2 emissions, the search for a resource-saving, environmentally-friendly ammonia synthesis alternative is extremely urgent. Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction appears to be a good candidate. In this communication, we report the development of ruthenium nanoparticles as a highly efficient and durable nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) electrocatalyst in acidic electrolyte under ambient conditions. Such electrochemical NRR catalyst exhibits a large NH3 formation rate (24.88 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) with Faradaic efficiency (0.35%) at -0.15 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, outperforming many reported NRR electrocatalysts. Note that it exhibits high durability and stability during the entire electrochemical NRR process.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is emerging as an attractive strategy for sustainable and distributed production of ammonia (NH3) under ambient conditions. Because of the use of unsatisfactory electrocatalysts, however, it is still encountering issues of low yield rates and limited efficiency, resulting from the sluggish reaction kinetics, the competing hydrogen evolution reaction and additional reaction product formation. Herein, an atomically dispersed transition metal dimer species was employed to selectively accelerate the nitrogen reduction reaction kinetics for high reduction efficiency and simultaneously alleviate the additional reaction. In this system, atomic Fe and Mo metal dimer in situ anchored on defect-rich graphene layers can realize selective electroreduction of nitrogen to ammonia by numerous FeMoNxC active sites. It exhibits higher catalytic activity than its counterparts (Fe@NG and Mo@NG) owing to a combination of ligand, geometric and synergistic effects, with a yield rate of 14.95 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) at -0.4 V and a faradaic efficiency of 41.7% at -0.2 V. The superior performance of this atomic transition metal dimer catalyst can outperform some precious metal-based catalysts due to its excellent selectivity and high catalytic activity. The specific structure of the N-coordinated FeMo dimer was further identified to be FeMoN6 by density functional theory (DFT). The catalytic reaction pathway and mechanism were explored by (DFT) calculations and proposed based on the FeMoN6 model. The existence of numerous FeMoN6 active sites can not only weaken the N N bond, but also efficiently catalyze nitrogen reduction through the alternating pathway.
Electrochemical nitrogen fixation is a promising strategy to achieve sustainable ammonia (NH3) synthesis. However, the major challenge lies in simultaneously achieving high NH3 production rates and faradaic efficiency (FE). A well-designed catalyst with high nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) performance is urgently needed. Herein, we report a novel boron-doped titanium carbide (Ti3C2-B) material prepared by doping B into intercalated carbide titanium (Ti3C2) MXenes. The NH3 yield of Ti3C2-B catalysts was examined using two detection techniques: ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy and ion chromatography. The synthesized electrocatalyst exhibited an NH3 yield of 39.64 & PLUSMN; 1.4 & mu;g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.55 V and an FE of 11.89% & PLUSMN; 0.3% at -0.45 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), outperforming most reported NRR catalysts. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations suggest that B doping of Ti3C2 reduces the free energy obstacle for the rate-determining step *NNH2 & RARR; *NNH3, enhances the suppression of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), and improves NRR capabilities. B doping of 2D MXene nanosheets offers a promising avenue for developing highly efficient N-2 electrocatalysts in the future.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) to produce NH3 is the most efficient, eco-friendly and cost-effective alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. It is crucial to investigate and develop electrocatalysts selective for NH3 synthesis. In recent studies, the Ti3C2 MXene has emerged as a highly promising electrocatalyst for the NRR process. In this work, we explore the effect of Zif-8 addition over MXene sheets in order to control the rate of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Despite the better result obtained for Zif-8@Ti3C2 (3.0 & mu;g NH3 g(cat)(-1) h(-1) at -0.55 V/RHE), the ammonia produced when using Zif-8@Ti3C2 as cathode material is shown to be originated from nitrogen atoms contained in the Zif-8 structure instead of those of N-2. The results shed light to the need to fully understand the N-2 electroreduction process over N-containing electrocatalysts.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under milder conditions has become more and more promising and attractive due to its simplicity, high energy conversion efficiency and no need for expensive agents. But the designed electrocatalysts at ambient conditions are insufficient in activity and Faraday efficiency (FE). Among these electrocatalysts, Pd-based materials are promising NRR electrocatalysts ascribed to they have nitrogen reduction activity at a low overpotential. However, poorly NH3 yields and FEs of Pd-based nanomaterials are still significant problems. Herein we report PdPb nanosponges that perform effectively electroreduction of N-2 to NH3 under ambient conditions. It was found Pb element can inhibit the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) of Pd and enhance NRR performance. According to our experiment, in 0.1 M HCl, the NH3 yield of PdPb/C was 25.68 mu g mg(cat)(-1)h(-1) (5.14 mu g cm(-2)h(-1)) at 0.05 V vs. RHE, and corresponding FE was 5.79 %, which is one of the most active materials at 0.05 V vs. RHE among the currently reported literature. Further reducing the voltage to more negative (- 0.05 V vs. RHE), the NH3 yield increased to the highest value, 37.68 mu g mg(cat)(-1)h(-1) (7.54 mu g cm(-2) h(-1)), 8 times better than Pd/C (4.8 mu g mg(cat)(-1)h(-1)). Moreover, this catalyst also shows a great stability after 10 h. Besides that, density functional theory (DFT) also corresponds to the experimental results. The introduction of Pb can effectively reduce *H adsorption, inhibit HER, decrease the *NNH generation free energy of NRR process and improve NRR activity. Surprisingly, our ideas can also be extended to other materials such as RuO2. It provides an excellent channel for the rational design of high-efficiency NRR electrocatalysts at ambient conditions in the future.
The ambient electrocatalytic N, reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for producing NH3. However, a guideless search for single-atom-based and other electrocatalysts cannot promote the NH 3 yield rates by NRR efficiently. Herein, our first-principles calculations reveal that the successive emergence of vertical end-on *N-2 and oblique end-on *NNH admolecules on single metal sites is key to high-performance NRR. By targeting the admolecules, single Ag sites with the Ag-N-4 coordination are found and synthesized massively. They exhibit a record-high NH3 yield rate (270.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat),(-1) or or 69.4 mg h(-1) mg(Ag)(-1)) - and a desirable Faradaic efficiency (21.9%) in HCl aqueous solution under ambient conditions. The generation rate of NH3 is stable during 20 consecutive reaction cycles, and the reduction current density is almost constant for 60 h. This work provides an effective targeting-design principle to purposefully synthesize active and durable single-atom-based NRR electrocatalysts.
NH3, as one of the most massively used chemical products in the world, not only serves as the main nitrogen source of chemical fertilizers but also is considered as a promising renewable energy source. Most ammonia in industry is produced by the HaberBosch process under extremely high temperature and pressure conditions, which is intensively energy consuming and environmentally unfriendly. Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has been regarded as a promising way to produce NH3 under ambient conditions in recent years, but the research for efficient earth-abundant electrocatalysts is still highly limited. In this work, different TiO2 phases (anatase and rutile)/carbon nanocomposites with a sandwich architecture are produced by annealing MXene at different temperatures, which shows excellent electrocatalytic NRR performance. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, anatase TiO2/C composites show better NRR performance than the rutile ones, which achieve a large NH3 yield of 14.0 mu g h(-1) cm(-2), a high Faradaic efficiency of 13.3% at -0.2 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode, and a high electrochemical stability. The sandwich architecture of anatase TiO2 nanoparticles well-dispersed on the surface of carbon layers could increase the conductivity of TiO2 and the exposure of active sites, which could explain the improved NRR activity of anatase TiO2/C composites compared with previous work. Density functional theory calculations suggest that the energy barrier of most steps for the surface of anatase TiO2 is relatively lower than that of rutile TiO2, which could explain the better electrocatalytic NRR performance for anatase TiO2/C composites compared with the rutile ones.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction is regarded as an attractive alternative to the industrial Haber-Bosch process for mild NH3 synthesis. However, its practical feasibility requires efficient electrocatalysts with high activity and selectivity. Herein, we first report using sputtered TiB2 film to enable superb artificial N-2 reduction electrocatalysis. In 0.1 M HCl, such TiB2 seizes a great NH3 yield of 1.75 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and a high Faradaic efficiency of 11.37% at -0.30 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode with excellent durability. Density functional theory calculations further evidence that the high activity and selectivity of TiB2 arise from the positively charged Ti atomic plane, which facilitates the adsorption, activation, and hydrogenation of N-2 molecules while well suppresses the binding of H atoms. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalysts is critical for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. Defect engineering is generally employed to prepared high-performance electrocatalysts. Herein, we report a broken holey graphene oxide (BHGO) prepared by a facile high-temperature etching method. Compared with the holey graphene oxide (HGO) and graphene oxide (GO), the BHGO exhibits higher electron transfer capability and richer active sites (coordination of one-dimensional edges and zero-dimensional oxygen-doping defects). The BHGO catalyst reaches excellent NRR performance (NH3 yield of 22.27 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and Faraday efficiency (FE) of 11.01 % in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution at the ambient condition. Illustrated by the density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the introduction of coordinated mull-dimensional defects redistributes the charge, enhancing adsorption of nitrogen (N-2) and reducing energy barrier at rate-determining step (N*-> NH*). Moreover, catalytic performance can be well preserved in an aqueous solution. The proposed mull-dimensional defect engineering strategy and established DFT simulations may pave an exciting avenue toward the design and development of high-performance catalysts.
Developing electrocatalyst with high catalytic activity for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is the key step to accelerate the application of electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation. Eight kinds of double-atom Fe catalysts supported with graphene-based substrate (Fe-TMDA/GS, TM = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu) were constructed for electroreduction of nitrogen into ammonia. The bonding mechanism of Fe-transition metal dimer on substrates was studied from the perspectives of orbital hybridization and electron transfer. Based on the analysis of reaction paths and Gibbs free energy variation, the potential determining step of the NRR is the transfer process of the first H+/e(-) pair. Fe-Ti-DA/GS has the highest NRR catalytic activity among the eight kinds of Fe-TMDA/GS, with a Gibbs energy variation of 0.88 eV. Based on the analysis of electron density difference, band structure and work function, electron transfer is the main factor affecting nitrogen adsorption, and the second metal atom improves the catalytic activity of NRR through promoting electron transfer between N-2 and the graphene surface. This theoretical research provides new insights into developing highly efficient electrocatalyst for NRR. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is an environmentally friendly process for ammonia syn-thesis. An unusually high NH3 production rate (86.91 +/- 9.29 mu g h-1 cm-2) and Faradaic efficiency (F.E.) (57.17 +/- 4.14 %) was observed in electrochemical tests on NiS catalysts synthesized using thiourea (TU). Through joint experiment-theory work, we demonstrate the paradoxical catalytic effect of TU as a false positive from TU-derived thiocyanate reduction and a promoter via the generation of catalytically active carbon sites after TU reduction on the NiS surface (with an effective NH3 rate of 52 +/- 5.57 mu g h-1 cm-2). TU reduction leads to the substitution of an S atom to a reactive C atom with fewer valence electrons, facilitating a more facile NRR pathway. This study presents a new possibility for NRR catalysts based on metal-nonmetal compounds (e.g., sulfides, chalcogenides, or nitrides) by nonmetal dopants with fewer valence electrons to create new catalytically active sites.
Carbon-based nanomaterials are widely used in electro-catalysis because of their low cost, high conductivity and stability. However, their application towards selective electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia suffers from low activity and faradaic efficiency (FE). Here, we report a confined electrocatalysis strategy for enhanced ammonia production and FE in the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR), by the construction of a carbon nanotube (CNT or NCNT) inserted porousmetal-organic framework (MOF). The CNT/ NCNT serves as the catalytic center and ensures an efficient pathway for electron conduction that is essential to electrocatalysis, while the general relative hydrophobicity within the MOF enriches the local concentration of N-2 near the catalyst active sites, and more importantly suppresses the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) to facilitate the FE. Among the systematically screened MOF and carbon nanotubes, NCNT@MIL-101(Fe) demonstrates the highest activity of 607.35 mg h(-1) mg(NCNT)(-1) and CNT@MIL-101(Fe) achieves the best FE of 37.28%. The significantly improved NRR performance of CNT@MOFs and NCNT@MOFs demonstrates the successful employment of confined catalysis in electrochemical reactions, which provides an alternative strategy for catalyst design in nitrogen fixation.
Production of ammonia through an electrochemical process suffers from two challenging issues, namely low catalytic activity and low Faraday efficiency. Here, we boost the N-2 reduction to NH3, while inhibiting the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) using novel two-dimensional (2D) transition metal borides (MBenes), defect-engineered 2D-materials, and 2D pi-conjugated polymer (2DCP)-supported single-atom catalysts (SACs). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations show that nitrogen molecules can be captured in the hollow sites of MBenes, with significant increases in the adsorption strength and N N bond length. Also, defective 2D-materials formed by the vacancy sites of Te, Se and S expose N-2 molecules to a specific environment adjacent to three transition metals, which drastically improves the catalytic activity and selectivity (by dramatic increase in the N N bond length up to 1.38 angstrom). We report a new mechanism for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) as a combination of dissociative and associative mechanisms. A machine-learning (ML) based fast-screening strategy to predict efficient NRR electrocatalysts is described. Overall, TaB, NbTe2, NbB, HfTe2, MoB, MnB, HfSe2, TaSe2 and Nb@SAC exhibit impressive selectivities over HER with overpotentials of 0.44 V, 0.40 V, 0.24 V, 0.60 V, 0.17 V, 0.17 V, 0.64 V, 0.37 V and 0.58 V, respectively. This study opens a new doorway to overcome previous drawbacks of 2D-materials for NRR.
The electrocatalytic conversion of nitrogen gas at ambient conditions represents a novel approach for ammonia synthesis to the sustainable society. It is critical to understand the detailed pathways and mechanisms of this promising process to develop a highly efficient catalyst. Herein, the N, P co-doping carbon (NP-C-MOE-5) catalyst was prepared for electrocatalytic N-2 reduction in acid electrolytes under ambient temperatures and pressures. Experimental results showed that there are two products including NH3 and N2H4 center dot H2O on the NP-C-MOF-5 cathode at -0.1 V versus RHE with the yield of 1.08 and 5.77 x 10(-4) mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), respectively. Moreover, an electrocatalytic pathway on NP-C-MOF-5 was investigated by the electrochemical in situ Fourier transform infrared technique. The results confirmed the formation of N2Hy (1 <= y <= 4) intermediates on NP-C-MOF-5 cathode surfaces, suggesting an associative pathway for the N2 reduction reaction.
Electrochemical reduction of N-2 into NH3 (N2RR) under ambient conditions has emerged as a sustainable approach alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. However, the more favored H+ reduction in aqueous electrolytes can lead to low faradaic efficiency for NH3 production. Thus, designing electrocatalysts to suppress proton reduction is the key to improve the activities towards the N2RR. As an efficient strategy for modulating the associated electronic properties of surface catalysts, the support effect is drawing growing attention. Sparked by the support effect, Ni2P nanoparticles supported by N,P co-doped carbon nanosheets (Ni2P/N,P-C) were synthesized and found to have a higher affinity for N-2 molecules than for H+ which makes it a good candidate for the N2RR. The prepared catalyst showed an NH3 yield rate of 34.4 mu g h(-1) mg(Ni2P)(-1) at -0.2 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) with a faradaic efficiency of 17.21% in 0.1 M HCl (22.89% and 57.2 mu g h(-1) mg(Ni2P)(-1) in 0.2 M PBS; 19.82% and 90.1 mu g h(-1) mg(Ni2P)(-1) in 0.1 M KOH), which is higher than the best values ever reported for noble-metal free catalysts in aqueous solution under ambient conditions. Importantly, the N,P-C substrate in this work is regarded as an electronic storage medium that regulates the electronic distribution of Ni2P/N,P-C when N-2 is chemically adsorbed at the Ni site, playing a vital role in inhibiting the adsorption of H and promoting the adsorption and activation of N-2 molecules. This work not only gives a new insight into understanding the transformation of the HER to the N2RR, but also provides a guideline for the development of highly active non-noble-metal catalysts.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) catalyzed by transition-metal-based electrocatalysts offers the sustainable strategy to directly convert N-2 to NH, at ambient conditions, but it is still extremely challenging for such catalysts to simultaneously obtain a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) and a large NH3 yield. Herein, we report the zero-valence Cu nanoparticles anchored on reduced graphene oxide (Cu NPs-rGO) as a highly effective NRR electrocatalyst for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion in a neutral solution. When measured in 0.5 M LiClO4, the Cu NPs-rGO achieves a high Faradaic efficiency of 15.32% and a large NH3 yield of 24.58 mu g h(-1) ma(cat)(-1). at -0.4 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode. In addition, such electrocatalyst possesses marvelous stability and selectivity as well. The density functional theory calculations are carried out to further investigate the catalytic mechanism.
Nitrogen fixation under ambient conditions remains a significant challenge. Here, we report nitrogen fixation by Ru single-atom electrocatalytic reduction at room temperature and pressure. In contrast to Ru nanoparticles, single Ru sites supported on N-doped porous carbon greatly promoted electroreduction of aqueous N-2 selectively to NH3, affording an NH3 formation rate of 3.665 mg(NH3) h(-1) mg(Ru)(-1) at -0.21 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode. Importantly, the addition of ZrO2 was found to significantly suppress the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction. An NH3 faradic efficiency of about 21% was achieved at a low overpotential (0.17 V), surpassing many other reported catalysts. Experiments combined with density functional theory calculations showed that the Ru sites with oxygen vacancies were major active centers that permitted stabilization of *NNH, destabilization of *H, and enhanced N-2 adsorption. We envision that optimization of ZrO2 loading could further facilitate electroreduction of N-2 at both high NH3 synthesis rate and faradic efficiency.
We propose an efficient and clean avenue for ammonia synthesis, via electroreduction of nitrate which could be obtained from industrial wastewater, domestic sewage, sodium nitrate ore, and nitrification of bacteria and electrochemical oxidation of nitrogen, which addresses the water pollution issues and simultaneously upgrades the nitrate to high-value ammonia. At a low overpotential of -0.15 V versus RHE, Cu nanosheets achieved an ammonia formation rate of 390.1 mu g mg(-1) Cu h(-1) and a Faradaic efficiency of 99.7%, attributed to suppression of the HER activity and apparent improvement of the rate of rate-determining step on Cu (111). Such an ammonia formation rate is more than two orders of magnitude higher than electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction to ammonia. This work not only develops a powerful strategy to the rational design of robust and efficient catalysts by crystal facet engineering, but also provides an alternative route for electrochemical ammonia synthesis by reduction of nitrate. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Developing efficient electrochemical processes for ammonia (NH3) production is a significant challenge that needs to be met to realize a carbon-neutral chemical industry. Recently, electrocatalytic nitrogen-reduction has been actively investigated under ambient conditions. However, the evaluation of electrodes for NH3 production using ex-situ NH3 detection methods only provide time-and space-averaged catalytic information. When investigating the transient activity of electrodes with spatiotemporal information, the real-time detection of NH3 near the electrode with high analytical resolution is essential. In this study, in-situ detection of electrochemically generated NH3 was first demonstrated using scanning electrochemical microscopy. A low NH3 flux of 6.6 nmol cm-2 s- 1 generated from an Fe-CuS/C electrode was detected using NH3 oxidation current detected at a poly-crystalline Pt ultramicroelectrode. This observation provides invaluable information on catalysis, including transient activity and durability. The advantages and limitations of the proposed in-situ NH3 detection method are demonstrated in an evaluation of nitrogen-reduction electrolysis.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is becoming increasingly important for ammonia (NH3) synthesis, but the development of effective electrocatalysts remains a great challenge. Here, by means of extensive first-principles calculations, we systematically study the potential of coronene-based two-dimensional (2D) metal-organic frameworks (TM-PTC, TM = Fe, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu) as single-atom catalysts for dinitrogen (N-2) fixation. Our results show that the gas phase N-2 can be readily reduced to NH3 on V/Fe-PTC through the enzymatic/distal mechanism with a quite low overpotential of 0.60/0.53 V. The underlying physics for the excellent NRR performance is discussed in detail. Moreover, the competing reaction of hydrogen evaluation reaction (HER) is dramatically suppressed in Fe-PTC, endowing them with high selectivity and thus rendering them ideal for NH3 synthesis. This work not only provides efficient electrocatalysts for NRR under mild reaction conditions but also helps guide the future development of single-atom electrocatalysts.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under mild conditions is significantly challenging, due to the extremely high stability of dinitrogen (N-2) molecules. The NRR pathway also confronts the competitive water reduction reaction that takes places universally in an aqueous solution. Herein, a Fe2O3/Cu catalyst is demonstrated as an efficient NRR electrocatalyst. The electronic interactions elevate the d-state electron center, enabling strong back-bonding for N-2 molecules. The altering of d-electron distribution promotes the adsorption of N-2, leading to a high catalytic activity. As a result, the Fe2O3/Cu catalyst exhibits an outstanding ammonia production rate of 15.66 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat)(-1) at -0.1 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), a Faradaic efficiency of 24.4%, and a good electrochemical stability. (C) 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cost-effective production of ammonia via electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) hinges on N-2 electrolysis at high current densities with suitable selectivity and activity. Here, we report our findings in electrochemical NRR for ammonia synthesis using porous bimetallic Pd-Ag nanocatalysts in both gas-phase and liquid-phase electrochemical cells at current densities above 1 mA cm(-2) under ambient conditions. While the gas-phase cell has lower Ohmic losses and higher energy efficiency, the liquid-phase cell achieved higher selectivity and Faradaic efficiency, attributed to the presence of concentrated N-2 molecules dissolved in an aqueous electrolyte and the hydration effects. The liquid cell demonstrated notable performance for electrocatalytic NRR, achieving an NH3 production rate of 45.6 +/- 3.7 mu g cm(-2) h(-1) at a cell voltage of -0.6 V (vs RHE) and current density of 1.1 mA cm(-2), corresponding to a Faradaic efficiency of similar to 19.6% and an energy efficiency of similar to 9.9%. Similarly, the gas-phase cell achieved a NH3 yield rate of 19.4 +/- 2.1 mu g cm(-2) h(-1) at -0.07 V (vs RHE) and 1.15 mA cm(-2) with a Faradaic efficiency of 7.9% and an energy efficiency of 27.1%. Further, operando surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy and density functional theory (DFT) are used to identify intermediate species relevant to the NRR at the electrode-electrolyte interfaces to provide insights into the NRR mechanism on Pd-Ag nanoparticles. This work highlights the importance of design and optimization of cell configuration in addition to the modification of the catalyst to achieve high-performance N-2 electrolysis for ammonia synthesis.
Currently, the energy and capital intensive Haber-Bosch process still dominates NH3 synthesis which operates at high temperatures and pressures releasing inevitably large amounts of CO2. The electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) offers us an environmentally-friendly and sustainable route for NH3 synthesis under ambient conditions. In this communication, we describe that TiS2 nanosheets (TiS2 NSs) behave as efficient transition-metal-based NRR electrocatalysts for N-2-to-NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. When tested in 0.1 M Na2SO4, such TiS2 NSs achieve a high faradaic efficiency of 5.50% and a large NH3 yield of 16.02 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.6 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, which is superior to bulk TiS2 (5.84 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1); 1.66%). Notably, this catalyst also shows strong stability during electrolysis and recycling tests.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reactions (NRRs) show great potential for replacing the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process, but require highly active electrocatalytic centers. Although various catalysts have been recently developed for NRRs, their inefficiency remained a huge obstacle for further commercialization. In this work, a shell-engineering strategy is proposed for the design of iron-doped titanium dioxide hollow nanospheres (FeHTNs) with abundant oxygen vacancies for NRRs based on the breathing process of mammalian alveolus. The hollow structure and porous shell of FeHTNs enable fast delivery of N-2 reactants into the cavity of alveolus and stay in there longer and thus give N-2 molecules more chance to contact the inner surface of electrocatalysts and hence greatly enhance NRR kinetics for the formation of ammonia. The dissolved ammonia in the electrolytic solution, in turn, creates negative pressure in cavities, which can suck N-2 reactants automatically into the cavity, triggering the domino effect for continuous NRRs. A record ammonia yield of 43.14 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.7 V vs. RHE was achieved on Fe1.0HTN catalysts, close to the top of the pyramid among recently reported TO2-based catalysts. Besides, Fe(1.0)HTNs were employed as a N-2 cathode for assembled Zn-N-2 aqueous batteries, achieving both ammonia production (average NH3 yield: 0.172 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) and electricity generation (power density: 16.42 mu W cm(-2)), which offers a fascinating prospect for practical applications.
Developing highly efficient non-precious-metal catalysts for electrochemical reduction reaction is vital for artificial nitrogen fixation under ambient conditions. Herein, we report a bioinspired Fe3C@C composite as an efficient electrocatalyst for nitrogen reduction. The composite based on a leaf skeleton successfully replicates the natural vein structure with multichannels. The Fe3C@C core-shell structure as the real active center contributes to selective electrocatalytic synthesis of ammonia from nitrogen with Faraday efficiency of 9.15% and production rate of 8.53 mu g/(h mg(cat)) or 12.80 mu g/(h cm(2)) at a low potential of -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE), which is better than that of recently reported carbon- and iron-based materials, even comparable with that of noble-metal-based catalyst. Experiments with density functional theory calculations reveal that graphene-encapsulated Fe3C nanoparticles can improve charge transfer due to core-shell interaction, beneficial for inducing active sites for N-2 adsorption and activation and thereby facilitate ammonia synthesis.
Developing highly efficient electrocatalysts for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is becoming increasingly important but remains a great challenge due to the lack of strategies to solve the problems of activity and selectivity. By means of systematic density functional theory (DFT) calculations, this work focuses on understanding and addressing this challenge by building a full profile of the stability, activity, and selectivity of the eNRR on a model electrocatalyst system, i.e., graphdiyne (GDY)-supported Fe-based transition metal (M) double-atom catalysts (FeM-GDYs). Based on the studies on 26 FeM-GDYs, the activity trends of the catalysts are constructed using the adsorption energy of the *NH2 intermediate (E-ads(*NH2)) as a descriptor; this displays a well-defined volcano-shaped relationship, which enables us to identify 11 FeM-GDYs that show improved activities in comparison with that of the Ru(0001) stepped surface, which is used as a benchmark. Employing the difference in the free energies of the H and N-2 adsorption processes, i.e., Delta G(*N-2) - Delta G(*H), as a selectivity descriptor, 3 FeM-GDYs (M = Ni, Mo, and Cr) are finally demonstrated to exhibit a strong ability to suppress the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Their improved activity and selectivity have been discussed and explained based on the alteration of the electronic structures and the coordination environments of the metal atoms upon FeM-GDY formation. More importantly, these FeM-GDY catalysts have a high potential for experimental synthesis. These results not only contribute to more efficient electrocatalysts toward the eNRR but also provide an effective way to find new substrates for catalyst synthesis and a guideline to improve the activity and selectivity of the resulting catalysts.
The development of highly active, non-noble metal-based materials for electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under environmental conditions is still a challenge. Herein, we have designed novel Fe, MoN/C hollow porous nitrogen-doped carbon nanorods as an effective catalyst for N-2 fixation by means of the pyrolysisacid etching process. A high ammonia (NH3) formation rate (1.52 x 10(6) mol h(1) cm(2)) and Faradaic efficiency (FE, 14.2%) at -0.1 V versus RHE are obtained for NRR in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution. FeN chi and MoN chi units simultaneously serve as catalytic sites for promoting ammonia synthesis, and the concentration of pyridinic N is also essential for the enhanced ammonia production and FE. Therefore, this study accomplishes superior electrocatalytic performance of the Fe, MoN/C hollow nanorods toward NRR in ammonia synthesis application.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides a promising route for NH3 production under ambient conditions to replace traditional Haber-Bosch process. For this purpose, efficient NRR electrocatalysts with high NH3 yield rate and high Faradaic efficiency (FE) are required. Cu-based materials have been recognized catalytic active for some multi-electron-involved reduction reactions and usually exhibit inferior catalytic activities for hydrogen evolution reaction. We report here the preparation and characterization of a series of Cu-based nanowires array (NA) catalysts in situ grown on Cu foam (CF) substrate, including Cu(OH)(2) NA/CF, Cu3N NA/CF, Cu3P NA/CF, CuO NA/CF and Cu NA/CF, which are directly used as self-supported catalytic electrodes for NRR. The electrochemical results show that CuO NA/CF achieves a highest NH3 yield rate of 1.84 x 10(-9) mol s(-1) cm(-2), whereas Cu NA/CF possesses a highest FE of 18.2% for NH3 production at -0.1 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. Such catalytic performances are superior to most of recently reported metal-based NRR electrocatalysts. The contact angle measurements and the simulated calculations are carried out to reveal the important role of the superaerophobic NA surface structure for efficient NRR electrocatalysis. (C) 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Industrial NH3 synthesis mainly relies on the carbon-emitting Haber-Bosch process operating under severe conditions. Electrocatalytic N-2-to-NH3 fixation under ambient conditions is an attractive approach to reduce energy consumption and avoid direct carbon emission. In this communication, sulfur-doped graphene (S-G) is proposed as an efficient and stable electrocatalyst to drive the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, this S-G attains a remarkably large NH3 yield of 27.3 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1) and a high Faradaic efficiency of 11.5% at -0.6 and -0.5 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively, much higher than those of undoped G (6.25 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1); 0.52%). Density functional theory calculations reveal that carbon atoms close to substituted sulfur atoms are the underlying catalytic active sites for the NRR on S-G, and the related NRR mechanism is also explored.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has been an important area for many scientists. However, high voltage requirements, low NH3 yield, and poor stability remain the biggest challenges for NRR. Here, novel high-entropy alloys RuFeCoNiCu nanoparticles with small size (approximate to 16 nm) and uniformity, prepared in oil phase at atmospheric pressure and low temperature (<= 250 degrees C) are reported for the first time and are applied to NRR. According to the experiments, there is a high NH3 yield at a low overpotential. It has a surprising NH3 yield of 57.1 mu g h(-1) mgcat-1 (11.4 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) at 0.05 V versus RHE in 0.1 m KOH, and the corresponding Faradaic efficiency reaches 38.5%, which is the electrocatalyst with the highest NH3 yield at the voltage of 0.05 V versus RHE reported so far. Similarly, the material also exhibits excellent electrochemical properties in other electrolytes such as 0.1 m Li2SO4, 0.1 m Na2SO4, and 0.1 m HCl electrolytes. Besides, after the 100 h test, only slightly diminished in activity. Theoretical calculation shows that Fe surrounded by alloy metals is the best site for N-2 adsorption and activation. Co-Cu and Ni-Ru couples show an excellent capacity to surface hydrogenation at a low overpotential.
Industrially, NH3 is mainly produced via the Haber-Bosch process which is not only energy-consuming but emits a large amount of CO2. Electrochemical reduction is regarded as an environmentally-benign alternative for sustainable NH3 synthesis, and its efficiency heavily depends on the identification of Earth-abundant catalysts with high activity for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this work, we report that a spinel Fe3O4 nanorod on a Ti mesh (Fe3O4/Ti) acts as an efficient and durable NRR electrocatalyst under ambient conditions. When tested in 0.1 M Na2SO4, such Fe3O4/Ti achieves a high faradaic efficiency of 2.6% and a NH3 yield 5.6 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and at -0.4 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode.
Herein, we demonstrate the construction of a 1D/2D heterostructure of cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc)-carbon nitride (C3N4) for electrochemical N-2 reduction to NH3. Improved performance originates from the higher exposure of active surface sites. The electrochemical NRR performance showed an NH3 formation rate of 423.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1), a high faradaic efficiency (FE) of 33%, and stability for 20 h. This study provides a new strategy for designing a highly efficient 1D/2D electrocatalytic system for ammonia synthesis.
Considerable efforts have been devoted to electrocatalytic reaction of N-2 to NH3 driven by the broad demand of ammonia and the disadvantages of the Haber-Bosch process. Unfortunately, the difficult adsorption of nitrogen molecules and the permanent dipole of N equivalent to N vastly inhibit its practical application. Historically, the ferric oxide (Fe2O3) has inferior nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) activity among transition compounds due to the unfavorable band gap and scarce active center. Considering the fact that the electronic properties and morphology character could be well-tuned brought by the incorporation of heteroatoms, we report vanadium atom decorated ferric oxide (named as V-alpha-Fe2O3) with a polyhedral-like structure as an innovative catalyst for fast nitrogen reduction reaction. Benefiting from the incorporation of vanadium atoms, the electronic structure and active center of alpha-Fe2O3 were well-optimized, with enhanced NRR activity being obtained. The as-synthesized 17 % V-alpha-Fe2O3 exhibits excellent catalytic activity that the Faradaic efficiency is 5.7 % and the NH3 yield is 68.7 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.2 V (vs. RHE) in 0.1 M HCl. This work reported an approach to synthesize the enhanced catalysts even realizing the efficient application of NRR in the near future.
The electrochemical reduction reaction of nitrogenous species such as NO3- (NO3RR) and N-2 (NRR) is a promising strategy for producing ammonia under ambient conditions. However, low activity and poor selectivity of both NO3RR and NRR remain the biggest problem of all current electrocatalysts. In this work, we fabricated Cu-nanosphere film with a high surface area and dominant with a Cu(200) facet by simple electrodeposition method. The Cu-nanosphere film exhibits high electrocatalytic activity for NO3RR and NRR to ammonia under ambient conditions. In the nitrate environment, the Cu-nanosphere electrode reduced NO3- to yield NH3 at a rate of 5.2 mg/h cm(2), with a Faradaic efficiency of 85 % at -1.3 V. In the N-2-saturated environment, the Cu-nanosphere electrode reduced N-2 to yield NH3 with the highest yield rate of 16.2 & mu;g/h cm(2) at -0.5 V, and the highest NH3 Faradaic efficiency of 41.6 % at -0.4 V. Furthermore, the Cu-nanosphere exhibits excellent stability with the NH3 yield rate, and the Faradaic efficiency remains stable after 10 consecutive cycles. Such high levels of NH3 yield, selectivity, and stability at low applied potential are among the best values currently reported in the literature.
Boron and nitrogen dual-doped carbon nanospheres (BNC-NSs) show exceptional electrocatalytic activity toward the nitrogen reduction reaction, with an NH3 yield rate of 15.7 mu gNH3 h-1 mgcat.-1 and faradaic efficiency of 8.1% at -400 mV vs. RHE in 0.05 M H2SO4 electrolyte. Meanwhile, stable electrocatalyst activity was also achieved for the BNC-NS electrocatalyst.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) offers a sustainable solution towards ammonia production but suffers poor reaction performance owing to preferential catalyst-H formation and the consequential hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Now, the Pt/Au electrocatalyst d-band structure is electronically modified using zeolitic imidazole framework (ZIF) to achieve a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of >44 % with high ammonia yield rate of >161 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1)under ambient conditions. The strategy lowers electrocatalyst d-band position to weaken H adsorption and concurrently creates electron-deficient sites to kinetically drive NRR by promoting catalyst-N(2)interaction. The ZIF coating on the electrocatalyst doubles as a hydrophobic layer to suppress HER, further improving FE by >44-fold compared to without ZIF (ca. 1 %). The Pt/Au-N(ZIF)interaction is key to enable strong N(2)adsorption over H atom.
As a sustainable alternative technology to the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical N-2 reduction offers the hope of directly converting N-2 to NH3 at ambient conditions. However, its efficiency greatly depends on screening high-active electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Here, the recent experimental finding that V is an effective dopant to greatly improve the NRR performances of TiO2 toward ambient N-2-to-NH3 fixation with excellent selectivity is reported. In 0.5 m anhydrous lithium perchlorate, V-doped TiO2 nanorods attain a high Faradic efficiency of 15.3% and a large NH3 yield of 17.73 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.40 and -0.50 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively, rivaling the performances of most reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts. Density function theory (DFT) calculations are performed to gain further insight into the catalytic mechanism.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction offers a sustainable alternative to the conventional Haber-Bosch process. However, it is currently restricted by low effective overpotential due to the concentration polarization, which arises from accumulated products, ammonium, at the reaction interface. Here, a novel covalent organic polymer with ordered periodic cationic sites is proposed to tackle this challenge. The whole network exhibits strong positive charge and effectively repels the positively charged ammonium, enabling an ultra-low interfacial product concentration, and successfully driving the reaction equilibrium to the forward direction. With the given potential unchanged, the suppressed overpotential can be much liberated, ultimately leading to a continuous high-level reaction rate. As expected, when this tailored microenvironment is coupled with a transition metal-based catalyst, a 24-fold improvement is generated in the Faradaic efficiency (73.74 %) as compared with the bare one. The proposed strategy underscores the importance of optimizing dynamic processes as a means of improving overall performance in electrochemical syntheses.
Ambient electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation is an emerging technology for green ammonia synthesis, but the absence of optimized, stable and performant catalysts can render its practical application challenging. Herein, bimetallic NiCo boride nanoparticles confined in MXene are shown to accomplish high-performance nitrogen reduction electrolysis. Taking advantage of the synergistic effect in specific compo-sitions with unique electronic d and p orbits and typical architecture of rich nanosized particles embed-ded in the interconnected conductive network, the synthesized MXene@NiCoB composite demonstrates extensive improvements in nitrogen molecule chemisorption, active area exposure and charge transport. As a result, optimal NH3 yield rate of 38.7 lg h-1 mgcat.-1 and Faradaic efficiency of 6.92% are acquired in 0.1 M Na2SO4 electrolyte. Moreover, the great catalytic performance can be almost entirely maintained in the cases of repeatedly-cycled and long-term electrolysis. Theoretical investigations reveal that the nitro-gen reduction reaction on MXene@NiCoB catalyst proceeds according to the distal pathway, with a distinctly-reduced energy barrier relative to the Co2B counterpart. This work may inspire a new route towards the rational catalyst design for the nitrogen reduction reaction.(c) 2022 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising process relative to energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. While conventional electrocatalysts underperform with sluggish paths, achieving dissociation of N-2 brings the key challenge for enhancing NRR. This study proposes an effective surface chalcogenation strategy to improve the NRR performance of pristine metal nanocrystals (NCs). Surprisingly, the NH3 yield and Faraday efficiency (FE) (175.6 +/- 23.6 mg h(-1) g(Rh)(-1) and 13.3 +/- 0.4%) of Rh-Se NCs is significantly enhanced by 16 and 15 times, respectively. Detailed investigations show that the superior activity and high FE are attributed to the effect of surface chalcogenation, which not only can decrease the apparent activation energy, but also inhibit the occurrence of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) process. Theoretical calculations reveal that the strong interface strain effect within core@shell system induces a critical redox inversion, resulting in a rather low valence state of Rh and Se surface sites. Such strong correlation indicates an efficient electron-transfer minimizing NRR barrier. Significantly, the surface chalcogenation strategy is general, which can extend to create other NRR metal electrocatalysts with enhanced performance. This strategy open a new avenue for future NH3 production for breakthrough in the bottleneck of NRR.
Electroreduction of nitrogen brings new opportunities for synthetic ammonia industry to meet the ever-growing needs of carbon neutrality. While efforts are focused on optimizing catalyst activity, facilitating efficient nitrogen-catalyst contact within working electrode to maximize three-phase reaction region remains a significant challenge, leaving the utilization rate of electrocatalyst much to be desired. Here, we design a superaerophilic electrode with hierarchical gas diffusion channels to address this problem. Upon getting access to electrode surface, the supplied N2 bubbles are shattered into nanoscale ones with the aid of nanocomponents, followed by smooth transfer towards inner electrocatalyst through the broad channels constructed by microcomponents. This strategy affords ultra-high three-phase reaction region inside the working electrode and enables fully function of the electrocatalyst. The application of such superaerophilic gas diffusion electrode generates a nearly 6-fold increase in Faradaic efficiency (85.9 %) compared with the conventional electrode, much approaching the target set by the U.S. Department of Energy (90 %).
Electrochemical nitrogen fixation under ambient conditions is an attractive prospect to produce ammonia, yet the process still suffers from the sluggish kinetics and is extremely sensitive to the structures of catalysts. Metal-free materials with tunable structures and electronic properties represent as alternative catalysts for electroreduction of N-2. Here, we develop a corrosion engineering strategy that enables the heteroatom doping and etching of host graphdiyne (GDY) simultaneously, leading to the consequent Cl-doped ultrathin GDY (Cl-GDY) catalyst to realize effective N-2 electroreduction. The as-synthesized CI-GDY can afford a relatively high NH3 yield rate of 10.7 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) associated with a Faradaic efficiency of 8.7% at -0.45 and -0.4 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively. This has been the first report so far that the halogen-doped nonmetallic GDY efficiently drives the N-2 reduction reaction, and it dramatically broadens the scope of metal-free catalysts for artificial nitrogen fixation.
Employing a non-noble trimetal oxide system toward anelectrochemicalnitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) instead of a century-long and CO2-emission Haber-Bosch process reveals a green pathfor NH3 production. In this work, the trimetal Fe-Mn-Gaoxide electrocatalyst was prepared with a facile one-pot hydrothermalmethod followed by annealing. Crystal structure, morphology, composition,and electrochemical properties were characterized. The flower-like(Fe,Mn,Ga)(3)O4-x spinel/tabularcrystal-like (Mn,Fe)(2)O3-y bixbyite composite electrocatalyst was in situ formedwith many active oxygen atoms on the oxygen vacancy sites and transitionmetals of Fe and Mn at multiple oxidation states. In a N-2-saturated 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, the NH3 yield rate at a potential of -0.6 V vs RHE is 814 & mu;g h(-1)mg(cat) (-1) (2036 & mu;g h(-1)cm(-2)) withFaradaic efficiency (FE) of 5.77%, while the highest FE of 19.7% isachieved at -0.5 V with a yield rate of 599 & mu;g h(-1)mg(cat) (-1). The reactionmechanism for NH3 production is investigated and explained.
The Haber-Bosch process for industrial-scale NH3 production suffers from high energy consumption and serious CO2 emission. Electrochemical N-2 reduction is an attractive carbon-neutral alternative for NH3 synthesis but is severely restricted due to N-2 activation needing efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. Here, we report that Ti3C2Tx (T = F, OH) MXene nanosheets act as high-performance 2D NRR electrocatalysts for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M HCl, such catalysts achieve a large NH3 yield of 20.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradic efficiency of 9.3% at -0.4 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, with high electrochemical and structural stability. Density functional theory calculations reveal that N-2 chemisorbed on Ti3C2Tx experiences elongation/weakness of the N?N triple bond facilitating its catalytic conversion to NH3 and the distal NRR mechanism is more favorable with the final reaction of *NH2 to NH3 as the rate-limiting step.
The extremely low nitrogen (N-2) solubility in aqueous solution greatly limits the gas reactant supply to catalysts resulting in a bottleneck in establishing efficient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Here, aiming at fairly few N-2 dissolving in aqueous electrolyte, an N-2-microextractor (NME) that can extract the N-2 from water, then feed it to catalysts on electrodes, is reported. The NME consists of polymer framework and extractant that possess high solubility for N-2, which serves as an ultra-thin interfacial system wrapping around electrodes. As expected, the enhancement of N-2 supply in NRR leads to a record-high Faradaic efficiency (80.1%) with an ammonia yield rate of 58.3 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) under ambient conditions. This is of great significance to a sustainable Ammonia Economy.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) are intriguing approaches to nitrogen fixation and hydrogen production under ambient conditions, given the need to discover efficient and stable catalysts to light up the green chemistry future. However, bottlenecks are often found during N-2/H2O activation, the very first step of NRR/HER, due to energetic electron injection from the surface of electrocatalysts. It is reported that the bottlenecks for both NRR and HER can be tackled by engineering the energy level via low-valent transition-metal doping, simultaneously, where rhenium disulfide (ReS2) is employed as a model platform to prove the concept. The doped low-valent transition-metal domains (e.g., Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn) in ReS2 provide more active sites for N-2/H2O chemisorption and electron transfer, not only weakening the N(sic)N/O-H bonds for easier dissociation through proton coupling, but also elevating d-band center toward the Fermi level with more electron energy for N-2/H2O reduction. As a result, it is found that iron-doped ReS2 nanosheets wrapped nitrogen-doped carbon nanofiber (Fe-ReS2@N-CNF) catalyst exhibits superior electrochemical activity with eightfold higher ammonia production yield of 80.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), and lower onset overpotential of 146 mV and Tafel slope of 63 mV dec(-1), when comparing with the pristine ReS2.
The traditional power-wasting Haber- Bosch process still dominates industrial NH3 production. Recent years witnessed the rapid development of an electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) because of its environmentally benign and sustainable feature. Here, we demonstrate the first utilization of a Ti3C2Tx MXene nanosheet as both the precursor and conductive substrate toward the in situ hydrothermal growth of TiO2 nanoparticles. The marriage of TiO2 and Ti3C2Tx leads to a synergistically active Ti-based nanohybrid catalyst that can strengthen N 2 reduction electrocatalysis. When tested in 0.1 M HCl, such a TiO2/Ti3C2Tx hybrid is superior in catalytic performance, capable of affording a NH3 yield of 26.32 mu g mg(-1) cat. with a 8.42% Faradaic efficiency (FE) at -0.60 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), larger than those for TiO2 and Ti3C2Tx. Notably, this nanohybrid also shows good NH3 selectivity with high electrochemical durability.
The synthesis of NH3 heavily relies on the Haber-Bosch process suffering from a large amount of CO2 emission and energy consumption. Possessing eco-friendly and sustainable characteristics, electrochemical reduction is considered as a promising candidate for artificial N2 fixation under ambient conditions, but efficient electrocatalysts are crucial for the N2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this communication, we report that perovskite La2Ti2O7 nanosheets behave as an efficient NRR electrocatalyst with excellent selectivity under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, this catalyst achieves a high NH3 yield rate of 25.15 lg h 1 mgcat. 1 with a faradaic efficiency of 4.55% at 0.55 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, it also shows high electrochemical stability.
The electro-catalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) at room temperature and atmospheric pressure has great potential in NH3 production, but the low product yield because of the low density of active sites and slow reaction kinetics greatly limits its further development. To overcome these shortcomings, a series of nano PdxCuy bimetal catalysts with adjustable Pd/Cu atomic ratios were prepared and used as electrocatalysts in the NRR. The PdxCuy bimetal catalysts possess large surface area and numerous active sites. In particular, due to excellent conductivity and reactivity, the Pd3Cu bimetallic catalyst showed remarkable performance with a NH3 yield of 22.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a faraday efficiency (FE) of 3.26% at an overpotential of -0.25 V, while the PdCu3 bimetal catalyst exhibited a high FE of 15.62% and a NH3 yield of 19.1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). Moreover, even at a lower overpotential of -0.15 V, the NRR yield was far more than 10 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). Thus, this strategy and study for preparing bimetal catalysts with adjustable FE would be beneficial for the preparation of superior bimetal NRR catalysts.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis by the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) using an economically efficient electrocatalyst can provide a substitute for the Haber-Bosch process. However, identification of active sites responsible for the origin of catalytic activity in transition metal phthalocyanine is a difficult task due to its complex structure. Herein, density functional theory (DFT) is applied to identify the probable active sites of nickel phthalocyanine (NiPc) for the NRR as well as the origin of catalytic activity which is associated with the d band center and density of states (DOS) of Ni in NiPc. Accordingly, NiPc nanorods (NRs), synthesized by a solvothermal method in large scale, exhibit an NH3 yield rate about 85 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 25% at -0.3 V vs. RHE. Moreover, the catalyst shows long term stability up to 30 hours while maintaining the NH3 yield and FE. The isotopic labelling experiment and other control investigation led to validation of the nitrogen source in NH3 formation. This study provides brand new insightful understanding of the active sites and the origin of the catalytic activity of NiPc for their NRR applications.
Ammonia, as an important chemical, has played an indispensable role in the fields of fertilizer precursors, fuel, and energy carriers over time. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) has attracted extensive attention due to the potential availability of clean energy under mild conditions, while electrochemical catalysts still need further optimization and exploration restricted by the strong chemical bonds of N(sic)N. In this work, it is proposed that a small amount of noble metal (Au) modified Fe-2(MoO4)(3) can serve as active sites in eNRR. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the interaction of Au with Fe-2(MoO4)(3) reduces the reaction energy of the rate determining step and inhibits the hydrogen evolution reaction, which increase the eNRR activity and selectivity of Au/Fe-2(MoO4)(3). As expected, according to the H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance measurement as the exclusive quantitative detection approach, the as-prepared Au/Fe-2(MoO4)(3) achieves outstanding eNRR performance with 7.61 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) NH3 production rate and 18.79% Faradaic efficiency at -0.4 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.2 m Na2SO4 under ambient conditions.
Metal nitrides have been suggested to be effective catalysts for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) based on computational investigations; however, experimental verification has been scarce. In this work, we demonstrate that chromium nitride is an active and selective ENRR catalyst in a Nafion-based membrane electrode assembly. Both the specific ENRR rate (1.4 x 10(-11) mol cm(-2) s(-1)) and faradic efficiency (0.58%) on the chromium nitride catalyst are approximately 20 times higher than those on Pt at -0.2 V vs the reversible hydrogen electrode. Although the only bulk phase identified by X-ray diffraction of the chromium nitride catalyst is pure phase Cr2N, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) investigations reveal that CrN, CrNxOy, and CrOx species, in addition to Cr2N, are present on the surface of the catalyst. In contrast, a synthesized chromium nitride sample with a bulk CrN phase shows a negligible ENRR rate. XPS shows that the synthesized sample does not possess any Cr2N species on the surface, which leads to the identification of Cr2N as the active phase in ENRR. Batch cell testing with N-15(2) as the feed forms both (NH3)-N-14 and (NH3)-N-15, indicating the involvement of surface N in the activation of dinitrogen, i.e., a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. Two mechanisms of catalyst deactivation are identified: (1) leaching of surface N at lower potentials (<-0.4 V) and (2) slow conversion of the active Cr2N phase to the inactive CrN phase at -0.2 V.
Producing NH3 through the Haber-Bosch process has brought about huge energy-consumption and heavy emission of CO2. Electrochemical N-2 reduction offers a promising alternative to realize N-2 fixation under ambient conditions. In this paper, PdP2 nanoparticles-reduced graphene oxide (PdP2-rGO) is proposed as an efficient electrocatalyst for the N-2 reduction reaction. In 0.5 M LiClO4, PdP2-rGO affords a large NH3 yield rate of 30.3 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 12.56% at -0.1 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, which are much superior to those of its Pd-rGO counterpart (NH3 yield rate of 14.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and FE of 4.28%). This catalyst also shows high stability. Density functional theory calculations suggest that the barriers for N-2 activation and the subsequent hydrogenation process on the Pd catalyst are alleviated after alloying with P.
Electrochemical reduction of dinitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) at the ambient condition is a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process due its energy-saving and eco-friendly natures. However, the extremely stable N=N triple-bonds in N-2 molecules and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) have been regarded as the two essential issues in the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR), making the simultaneous achievement of a high NH3 yield rate and a satisfactory Faradaic efficiency (FE) very difficult. To address this issue, we herein report a metal-free electrocatalyst, the boron-doped carbon nanosphere, to effectively activate the N=N triple-bonds and suppress the HER during the eNRR process. In this protocol, the B-C configurations can be easily tailored by simply changing the boron precursor amount, and the one that is (i.e., BC3) beneficial to the enhancement of eNRR can achieve the maximum relative content of similar to 43% in the optimum sample. Under this boron-doping amount, the material simultaneously delivers a high NH3 yield of 33.8 mg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a high FE of 39.2% at similar to 0.7 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, accompanied with a superior stability for a continuous eNRR. This study thus offers an efficient, stable, and low-cost carbon-based catalyst for eNRR. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NH3 is a valuable chemical with a wide range of applications, but the conventional Haber-Bosch process for industrial-scale NH(3 )production is highly energy-intensive with serious greenhouse gas emission. Electrochemical reduction offers an environmentally benign and sustainable route to convert N-2 to NH3 at ambient conditions, but its efficiency depends greatly on identifying earth-abundant catalysts with high activity for the N-2 reduction reaction. Here, it is reported that MnO particles act as a highly active catalyst for electrocatalytic hydrogenation of N-2 to NH3 with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, this catalyst achieves a high Faradaic efficiency up to 8.02% and a NH3 yield of 1.11 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at -0.39 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, with great electrochemical and structural stability. On the basis of density functional theory calculations, MnO (200) surface has a smaller adsorption energy toward N than that of H with the *N 2 -> *N2H transformation being the potential-determining step in the nitrogen reduction reaction.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction is increasingly deemed as a promising route for massive ammonia synthesis. Herein, hollow bimetallic CoFe2O4 nanocube derived from prussian blue analogue is elaborately wrapped by thin carbon layer and modified by rich oxygen vacancies, achieving splendid ammonia yield rate of 30.97 mu g h-1 mgcat.- 1 and Faradaic efficiency of 11.65 % at -0.4 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. In addition, C@CoFe2O4-x nanocube can withstand long-term and repetitive electrolysis without obvious structure collapse, constituent change and activity decay. The prominent activity is strongly associated with improved nitrogen adsorption and activation, collaboratively benefiting from the intrinsic unoccupied d orbitals of transition metal components, reformative electronic structure by oxygen vacancies and elevated electron injection possibility into the antibonding orbital of nitrogen molecule via conductive carbon wrapper. Both actual experiments and theoretical investigations attest the catalytic activity improvement mechanism, rendering the C@CoFe2O4-x nanocube design strategy efficient and valid.
Faradaic efficiency for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is often limited by low N-2 solubility in the electrolyte, while a large number of intimate contacts between the electrolyte and solid catalyst can also inevitably sacrifice many active sites for the NRR. Here, it is reported that a quasi-gas-solid interface formed in donor-acceptor-based conjugated polymers (CPs) is beneficial to boosting the NRR process and at the same time suppressing the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Of particular interest, it is found that a semicrystalline CP catalyst, SC-PBDT-TT, exhibits a high Faradaic efficiency of up to 60.5% with a maximum NH3 production rate of 16.8 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) in a neutral-buffered seawater electrolyte. Molecular dynamics and COMSOL Multiphysics simulations reveal the origin of the observed high NRR performance arising from the presence of desirable crystal regions to resist the penetration of H2O molecules, leading to the formation of a quasi-gas-solid interface inside the catalyst for a favorable direct-contact between the catalyst and N-2 molecules. Furthermore, high-throughput computations, based on density functional theory, reveal the actual real active site for N-2 adsorption and reduction in SC-PBDT-TT. This work provides a new framework for optimizing NRR performance of metal-free catalysts by controlling their crystallinities.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions provides an intriguing picture for the conversion of N-2 into NH3. However, electrocatalytic NRR mainly relies on metal-based catalysts, and it remains a grand challenge in enabling effective N-2 activation on metal-free catalysts. Here we report a defect engineering strategy to realize effective NRR performance (NH3 yield: 8.09gh(-1)mg(cat.)(-1), Faradaic efficiency: 11.59%) on metal-free polymeric carbon nitride (PCN) catalyst. Illustrated by density functional theory calculations, dinitrogen molecule can be chemisorbed on as-engineered nitrogen vacancies of PCN through constructing a dinuclear end-on bound structure for spatial electron transfer. Furthermore, the N-N bond length of adsorbed N-2 increases dramatically, which corresponds to strong activation system to reduce N-2 into NH3. This work also highlights the significance of defect engineering for improving electrocatalysts with weak N-2 adsorption and activation ability.
Electrochemical nitrogen fixation techniques have emerged as a promisingly sustainable approach to face the challenge associated with nitrogen activation of ammonia synthesis by the Haber-Bosch process under ambient conditions. Herein, the performance of electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction for the production of alpha-Fe(2)O(3)nanospindles coated with mesoporous TiO(2)with different crystallinity [denoted as alpha-Fe2O3@mTiO(2)-X(X=300, 400, and 500 degrees C)] were investigated. The as-prepared alpha-Fe2O3@mTiO(2)-400 composite exhibits a large NH(3)yield (27.2 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) at -0. 5 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode and a high Faradaic efficiency (13.3 %) in 0.1 mNa(2)SO(4), with excellent electrochemical durability. This work presents a novel avenue for the rational design of efficient unique hetero-phase nanocatalysts toward sustainable electrocatalytic N(2)fixation.
We report single yttrium sites anchored on carbon-coated TiO(2)for efficient and stable electrocatalytic N(2)fixation, delivering an NH(3)faradaic efficiency exceeding 11.0% and an NH(3)yield rate as high as 6.3 mu g(NH3)h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1)at low overpotentials, thus surpassing many reported metal electrocatalysts.
Recently, ambient electrochemical N-2 fixation has gained great attention. However, the commercial Pt-based electrocatalyst hardly shows its potential in this field. Herein, it is found that the isolated Pt sites anchored on WO3 nanoplates exhibit the optimum electrochemical NH3 yield rate (342.4 mu g h(-1) mg(Pt)(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (31.1%) in 0.1 m K2SO4 at -0.2 V versus RHE, which are about 11 and 15 times higher than their nanoparticle counterparts, respectively. The mechanistic analysis indicates that N-2 conversion to NH3 follows an alternating hydrogenation pathway, and positively charged isolated Pt sites with special Pt-3O structure can favorably chemisorb and activate the N-2. Furthermore, the hydrogen evolution reaction can be greatly suppressed on isolated Pt sites decorated WO3 nanoplates, which guarantees the efficient going-on of nitrogen reduction reaction.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is an alternative eco-friendly strategy for sustainable N-2 fixation with renewable energy. However, NRR suffers from sluggish kinetics owing to difficult N-2 adsorption and N equivalent to N cleavage. Now, nanoporous palladium hydride is reported as electrocatalyst for electrochemical N-2 reduction under ambient conditions, achieving a high ammonia yield rate of 20.4 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with a Faradaic efficiency of 43.6 % at low overpotential of 150 mV. Isotopic hydrogen labeling studies suggest the involvement of lattice hydrogen atoms in the hydride as active hydrogen source. In situ Raman analysis and density functional theory (DFT) calculations further reveal the reduction of energy barrier for the rate-limiting *N2H formation step. The unique protonation mode of palladium hydride would provide a new insight on designing efficient and robust electrocatalysts for nitrogen fixation.
The electrochemical method is considered being a sustainable alternative to the industrial Haber-Bosch process (150-350 atm, 350-550 degrees C) because it can produce ammonia (NH3) from nitrogen (N-2) and water (H2O) at room temperature and pressure. However, since the N equivalent to N triple bond in N-2 is one of the strongest bonds in nature, it requires a more negative potential for N-2 reduction, which often leads to violent hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in aqueous electrolysis systems. Therefore, it is a great challenge for the electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (ENRR) to find catalysts that can reduce the energy barrier of N-2 fixation and inhibit the HER. Herein, inspired by the Mo-Fe site in the biological nitrogenase, we found that the catalyst containing Mo3Fe3C active material has excellent N-2-fixing catalytic performance and can effectively inhibit the HER. At 0.05 V vs RHE, the Faraday efficiency (FE) of ENRR was as high as 27.0%. In addition, we innovatively used the Fourier-transformed alternating current voltammetry (FTACV) to explore the electron transfer process in ENRR, indicating that Mo3Fe3C is more conducive to reducing N-2 at low potential. According to density functional theory (DFT) calculations, compared with Mo2C and Fe3C, Mo3Fe3C is more helpful in promoting N-2 activation and hydrogenation. Due to the synergistic effect of the Mo-Fe site, N-2 hydrogenation needs to overcome a lower energy barrier in potential-determining step (PDS). Our research extends the knowledge into bimetallic active sites in ENRR and provides a new insight for the subsequent synthesis of high selectivity catalysts.
Under the current double challenge of energy and the environment, an effective nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has become a very urgent need. However, the largest production of ammonia gas today is carried out by the Haber-Bosch process, which has many disadvantages, among which energy consumption and air pollution are typical. As the best alternative procedure, electrochemistry has received extensive attention. In this paper, a catalyst loaded with Fe(3)clusters on the two-dimensional material C2N (Fe-3@C2N) is proposed to achieve effective electrochemical NRR, and our first-principles calculations reveal that the stable Fe-3@C2N exhibits excellent catalytic performance for electrochemical nitrogen fixation with a limiting potential of 0.57 eV, while also suppressing the major competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Our findings will open a new door for the development of non-precious single-cluster catalysts for effective nitrogen reduction reactions.
Environmental and energy considerations demand that the Haber-Bosch process for reducing N-2 to NH3 be replaced with electrochemical ammonia synthesis where the H atoms come from water instead of from H-2. But a practical realization of electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) requires the development of new generation electrocatalysts with low overpotential and high Faraday efficiency (FE). A major problem here is that the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) competes with NRR. Herein, we consider new generation dual-site catalysts involving two different metals incorporated into a novel two-dimensional C3N-C2N heterostructure that provides a high concentration of well-defined but isolated active sites that bind two distinct metal atoms in a framework that facilitates electron transfer. We report here the mechanism and predicted kinetics as a function of applied potential for both NRR and HER for the (Fe-Ru)/C3N-C2N dual atom catalyst. These calculations employ the grand canonical potential kinetics (GCP-K) methodology to predict reaction free energies and reaction barriers as a function of applied potential. The rates are then used in a microkinetic model to predict the turn-over-frequencies (TOF) as a function of applied potential. At U = 0 V, the FE for NRR is 93%, but the current is only 2.0 mA cm(-2). The onset potential (at 10 mA cm(-2)) for ammonia on Fe-Ru/C3N-C2N is -0.22 V-RHE. This leads to a calculated TOF of 434 h(-1) per Fe-Ru site. We expect that the mechanisms for NRR and HER developed here will help lead to new generations of NRR with high TOF and FE.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction (N2R) mediated by welldefined molecular catalysts is poorly developed by comparison with other reductive electrocatalytic transformations. Herein, we explore the viability of electrocatalytic N2R mediated by a molecular Mo-PNP complex. A careful choice of acid, electrode material, and electrolyte mitigates electrode-mediated HER under direct electrolysis and affords up to 11.7 equiv of NH3 (Faradaic efficiency < 43%) at -1.89 V versus Fc(+)/Fc. The addition of a proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) mediator has no effect. The data presented are rationalized by an initial electron transfer (ET) that sets the applied bias needed and further reveal an important impact of [Mo] concentration, thereby pointing to potential bimolecular steps (e.g., N-2 splitting) as previously proposed during chemically driven N2R catalysis. Finally, facile reductive protonation of [Mo(N)Br(HPNP)] with pyridinium acids is demonstrated.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is recognized as a promising approach for ammonia synthesis, which is, however, impeded by the inert nitrogen and the unavoidable competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Here, a Mo-PTA@CNT electrocatalyst in which Mo species are anchored on the fourfold hollow sites of phosphotungstic acid (PTA) and closely embedded in multi-walled carbon nanotubes (CNT) for immobilization is designed and synthesized. Interestingly, the catalyst presents a high ammonia yield rate of 51 +/- 1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and an excellent Faradaic efficiency of 83 +/- 1% at -0.1 V versus RHE under ambient conditions. The concentrations of NH4+ are also quantitatively calculated by H-1 NMR spectra and ion chromatography. Isotopic labeling identifies that the N atom of the formed NH3 originates from N-2. The controlled experiments confirm a strong interaction between Mo-PTA and N-2 with an adsorption energy of 50.46 kJ mol(-1) and activation energy of 21.36 kJ mol(-1). More importantly, due to CNT's gas storage and hydrophobicity properties, there is a fourfold increase in N-2 content. The concentration of H2O is reduced by more than half at the interface of the electrode. Thus, the activity of eNRR can be significantly improved with ultrahigh electron selectivity.
Electrocatalysis offers a promising alternative to tackle the high demand for the energy consuming and environmentally polluting Haber-Bosch process of industrial ammonia synthesis. Herein, using first-principles calculations based on density functional theory, we successfully predicted that Fe&Ni@Mo2CS2 diatomic catalysts have excellent electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) performance, with a limiting potential of only -0.48 V and outstanding dynamic stability. An efficient combination of Fe in high-spin and Ni in low-spin configuration was found to promote the activation of nitrogen triple bonds and the desorption of ammonia, respectively. The mechanism of activation of the nitrogen triple bond is explained in terms of the adsorption configuration and the charge and orbital ordering variation of the nitrogen molecules.
Artificial nitrogen fixation through the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions is a potentially promising alternative to the traditional energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. For this purpose, efficient catalysts are urgently required to activate and reduce nitrogen into ammonia. Herein, by the combination of experiments and first-principles calculations, we demonstrate that copper single atoms, attached in a porous nitrogen-doped carbon network, provide highly efficient NRR electrocatalysis, which compares favorably with those previously reported. Benefiting from the high density of exposed active sites and the high level of porosity, the Cu SAC exhibits NH3 yield rate and Faradaic efficiency (FE), specifically, similar to 53.3 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and 13.8% under 0.1 M KOH, similar to 49.3 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and 11.7% under 0.1 M HCl, making them truly pH-universal. They also show good stability with little current attenuation over 12 h of continuous operation. Cu-N-2 coordination is identified as the efficient active sites for the NRR catalysis.
The reduction of N-2 molecules to NH3 is a very challenging task in chemistry. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising technology for NH3 synthesis. By using first-principles calculation, a new class of single-atom catalysts (SACs), graphdiyne coordinated single transition metal atoms (TM@GDY, TM = Sc-Zn, Y-Cd, and La-Hg) were designed, and the NRR catalytic character of TM@GDY was systematically investigated. The results demonstrated that some TM@GDY (TM = Ti, V, Fe, Co, Zr, Rh, and Hf) monolayers exhibit better NRR activities than a Ru(0001) stepped surface. There is an obvious linear correlation between the limiting potential and the atomic N adsorption energy, which confirms that the N adsorption energy may be a descriptor for evaluation of the NRR catalytic performance. The V@GDY monolayer possesses the best NRR catalytic character with the lowest limiting potential of -0.67 V and the potential-limiting step (PLS) of *N-2 -> *NNH for both alternating and distal mechanisms. Our results highlight a new family of efficient and stable TM@GDY catalysts and provide useful guidelines for SAC development and practical applications.
Electrocatalytic Nitrogen Reduction Reaction (ECNRR) is a promising alternative NH3 production method relative to Haber-Bosch process. However, the ECNRR still suffers from rather low NH3 yield and selectivity (Faradaic efficiency (FE)) due to the poor catalytic activity of catalysts. Herein, benefiting from interface engineering, FeNi2S4/NiS hetero-interface electrocatalysts with unique electronic structures are successfully constructed, which the optimized catalyst can enhance the adsorption of N-2 molecules meanwhile inhibit H atoms adsorption. Significantly, the NH3 yield and FE of FNS/CC-2 are reached to 128.398 +/- 1.32 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and 28.64 +/- 0.18% which are higher than most of non-noble metal-based NRR electrocatalysts in alkaline electrolyte reported. Detailed experimental investigation and DFT calculations reveal that the enhanced electrocatalytic performance and selectivity of FeNi2S4/NiS towards N-2 are attributed to the changes of the D-band center and electronic structure of electrocatalyst surface. The construction strategy of this NRR electrocatalyst provides a new avenue on electrocatalytic research.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis from N2 under mild condition is considered a prom-ising strategy to store energy produced by renewable sources, but it is affected by the lack of efficient catalysts for nitrogen reduction. In this work Fe-based nanoparticles with different morphology are deposited on carbon cloth via drop-casting and chemical reduction. The catalyst activity has been evaluated by cyclic voltammetry and chro-noamperometry, using a 0.01 M phosphate buffered electrolyte (PBS). The produced ammonia has been determined through the indophenol method. As effective strategy to improve the catalytic activity, the morphology and particle size have been optimized and an electrochemical activation procedure has been implemented. Activation increases the available active sites and is related to higher amount of oxygen vacancies and Fe+2/Fe+3 ratio. Catalysts with optimized morphology produce ammonia at-0.35 V vs RHE with yield of 26.44 & mu;g mgcat-1h-1 and Faradaic efficiency of 20.4%, more than five times higher than without activation.& COPY; 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http:// creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
The electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen (N-2) has recently emerged as an attractive technology for producing ammonia (NH3) under mild conditions. Nevertheless, achieving a high selectivity of N-2 reduction with respect to hydrogen evolution at relatively low overpotential, and thus increasing the energy efficiency of ammonia production, has remained a key challenge. Herein, with systematic density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we report that the dipole of the N N triple bond in the adsorbed N-2 molecule is a more efficient and accurate theoretical indicator compared with the previous ones for predicting the catalytic performance of active sites in the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). By screening single transition metal atoms anchored on two-dimensional phthalocyanine (2D Pc) organic frameworks, we show that 2D Mo-Pc is a promising single-atom-catalyst in the NRR with an extremely low onset potential of -0.25 V. The origin of such high catalytic activity can be interpreted by the large dipole moment introduced into the N N bond via strong Mo-N interactions. As a result, the injection of electrons into the anti-bonding orbitals of nitrogen molecules is promoted. In addition, the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) can be effectively inhibited due to the unfavourable bonding interactions between the H and the single Mo atom.
Ammonia synthesis consumes 3 to 5% of the world's natural gas, making it a significant contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. Strategies for synthesizing ammonia that are not dependent on the energy-intensive and methane-based Haber-Bosch process are critically important for reducing global energy consumption and minimizing climate change. Motivated by a need to investigate novel nitrogen fixation mechanisms, we herein describe a highly textured physical catalyst, composed of N-doped carbon nanospikes, that electrochemically reduces dissolved N-2 gas to ammonia in an aqueous electrolyte under ambient conditions. The Faradaic efficiency (FE) achieves 11.56 +/- 0.85% at -1.19 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, and the maximum production rate is 97.18 +/- 7.13 mu g hour(-1) cm(-2). The catalyst contains no noble or rare metals but rather has a surface composed of sharp spikes, which concentrates the electric field at the tips, thereby promoting the electroreduction of dissolved N-2 molecules near the electrode. The choice of electrolyte is also critically important because the reaction rate is dependent on the counterion type, suggesting a role in enhancing the electric field at the sharp spikes and increasing N-2 concentration within the Stern layer. The energy efficiency of the reaction is estimated to be 5.25% at the current FE of 11.56%.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) represents a promising sustainable approach for NH3 synthesis. However, the poor NRR performance of electrocatalysts is a great challenge at this stage, mainly owing to their low activity and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, 2D ferric covalent organic framework/MXene (COF-Fe/MXene) nanosheets with controllable hydrophobic behaviors are successfully prepared via a multiple-in-one synthetic strategy. The boosting hydrophobicity of COF-Fe/MXene can effectively repel water molecules to inhibit the HER for enhanced NRR performances. By virtue of the ultrathin nanostructure, well-defined single Fe sites, nitrogen enrichment effect, and high hydrophobicity, the 1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorodecanethiol modified COF-Fe/MXene hybrid shows a NH3 yield of 41.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a Faradaic efficiency of 43.1% at -0.5 V versus RHE in a 0.1 m Na2SO4 water solution, which are vastly superior to the known Fe-based catalysts and even to the noble metal catalysts. This work provides a universal strategy to design and synthesis of non-precious metal electrocatalysts for high-efficiency N-2 reduction to NH3.
The electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia is a promising way to produce ammonia at mild condition. The design and preparation of an efficient catalyst with high ammonia selectivity is critical for the real applications. In this work, a series of transition metal (TM = Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Y, Zr, Nb, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, and Cd) atoms supported by gt-C3N4 (TM/gt-C3N4) are investigated as electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) based on density functional calculations. It is found that Mo/gt-C3N4 with a limiting potential of -0.82 V is the best catalyst for standing-on adsorbed N-2 cases. While for lying-on adsorbed N-2 cases, V/gt-C3N4 with a limiting potential of -0.79 V is better than other materials. It is believed that this work provides several promising candidates for the non-noble metal electrocatalysts for NRR at mild condition.
An electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction under ambient conditions provides a wonderful blueprint for the conversion of nitrogen to ammonia. However, current research on ammonia synthesis is mainly focused on metal-based catalysts. It is still a great challenge to realize the effective activation of N-2 on non-metallic catalysts. Herein, carbon quantum dots are reported to reduce dinitrogen to ammonia under ambient conditions. Benefiting from its numerous defect sites, this metal-free catalyst shows excellent catalytic performance in 0.1 M HCl with a faradaic efficiency of 17.59%. In addition, both experimental and theoretical results confirm that the catalytic performance of the catalyst can be improved by appropriately controlling the oxygen content of samples at different temperatures, and the utmost ammonia yield is 134.08 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), which is almost three times higher than that of a reported metal-free material. The proposed oxygen regulation provides a new method to optimize the surface properties of metal-free catalysts for ammonia synthesis.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction in ambient condition has received enormous attention for sustainable ammonia production. Apart from catalyst development, this promising route is confronted with considerable technical and scientific challenges, e.g., the ubiquity of ammonia contaminations, and the reliability of analysis methods for products. Herein, using indophenol blue method as a paradigm, its accuracy and reproducibility challenged by several interference factors are firstly scrutinized. The presence and levels of various contamination sources are then deliberately identified. Also, the specific experimental operations with the regulation of gas flow, stirring and temperature are systematically practised. Based on the experimental explorations together with recent advances in the field, we propose a flow chart that provides some critical recommendations to conduct rigorous and consistent operations in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction. This may help the beginners avoid common pitfalls and urge the community to pay more attention to other significant aspects (e.g., catalyst design and reaction kinetics).
Development of novel catalysts for nitrogen reduction at ambient pressures and temperatures with ultrahigh ammonia (NH3) yield and selectivity is challenging. In this work, an atomic catalyst with separated Pd atoms on graphdiyne (Pd-GDY) was synthesized, which shows fascinating electrocatalytic properties for nitrogen reduction. The catalyst has the highest average NH3 yield of 4.45 +/- 0.30 mg(NH3) mg(Pd)(-1) h(-1), almost tens of orders larger than for previously reported catalysts, and 100% reaction selectivity in neutral media. Pd-GDY exhibits almost no decreases in NH3 yield and Faradaic efficiency. Density functional theory calculations show that the reaction pathway prefers to perform at the (Pd, C1, C2) active area because of the strongly coupled (Pd, C1, C2), which elevates the selectivity via enhanced electron transfer. By adjusting the p-d coupling accurately, reduction of self-activated nitrogen is promoted by anchoring atom selection, and side effects are minimized.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eN2RR) to produce ammonia represents a promising approach to substitute the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, it remains challenging due to the low ammonia yield caused by low Faradic Efficiency over the target intermediates. Herein, the adjacent Cu defect formed at the interface of phase-separated CuAg alloy was successfully prepared by using the cation-exchange method and identified as the most active electrocatalytic center for efficient N-2 reduction. The phase-separated CuAg alloy with rich interfacial Cu defective sites exhibited excellent eN(2)RR performance with an ammonia production rate (38.35 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) and a Faradaic efficiency of 12.72 % at -0.60 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. Our work unravels fundamental principles for the rational design of electrocatalysts, and provides a strategy for fabricating the CuAg-PS alloy with rich interfacial Cu defective sites for eN(2)RR.
Electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen is a simple, green and sustainable method for the production of NH3, so it is very necessary to find an efficient and low-cost electrocatalyst. Here, we systematically studied the catalytic performance of two 3d transition metal (TM = Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn) atoms loaded on C2N monolayer. Through density functional theory calculations and systematic theoretical screening, it is known that Sc and Ti loaded structures can undergo nitrogen reduction reactions (NRR). Unfortunately, the limiting potential (UL) of NRR is not very friendly and is not conducive to the production of NH3. In order to reduce the UL of NRR, we further studied the structure of B and Ti co-doping (B-Ti-2 @C2N). As expected, the UL of the B-Ti-2 @C2N via the consecutive pathway is 0.10 eV, with high electrocatalytic activity, which effectively inhibiting the competition of the hydrogen evolution reaction. This theoretical research not only adds a new member to the family of electrocatalysts for nitrogen fixation, but also further increases our physical insights on adjusting catalytic activity, which is expected to guide the rational design of improving the catalyst activity of NRR.
NH3, derived from electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), is promising to satisfy the need of food production and serve as a carbon-free liquid energy carrier in the near future. Yet major challenges remain in enhancing NH3 yield rate and conversion efficiency of available electrocatalysts. This work achieved an ultrahigh electrocatalytic NH3 yield rate on the Fe-0.50-Bi2WO6 catalyst by a facile Fe-doped strategy. Up to 289 mu g center dot h(-1)center dot mg(cat)(-1) of NH3 formation rate was obtained at -0.75 V vs. RHE, which was reliably quantized by indophenol blue and H-1 NMR methods. The impressive result is an order of magnitude higher than that of the reported Fe- and Bi-based catalysts, even more superior than the result of single atom Ru catalyst. The key of the outstanding NRR behaviors on the Fe-0.50-Bi2WO6 catalyst is the significant hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) suppression and the synergy between Bi and Fe, which can effectively modulate the electron distribution and accelerate the electron transport. This work endows a new insight to further explore the high-performance electrocatalysts toward NRR.
Effective catalysts with sufficient activity and selectivity are essential for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Many fruitful NRR electrocatalysts have been investigated with regard to NH3 production under ambient conditions in recent years. However, well-defined and modifiable molecular catalysts have rarely been reported for the NRR to date. Here, molecular FePc was grafted on an O-MWCNT surface as a NRR electrocatalyst to improve its recyclability. This catalyst displayed high electrocatalytic ability and selectivity, giving a large NH3 yield of 36 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat., a FE of 9.73% and a turnover number (TON) of 12.56 after 2 h of electrocatalytic reaction in an acidic electrolyte, superior to most of the reported materials. DFT calculations indicated that the NRR preferentially proceeded along the alternate pathway, the activation of N-2 to produce N2H* is the rate-limiting step with a Delta G value of 1.79 eV. Conclusively, we report FePc/O-MWCNT as a low-cost, high-efficiency NRR catalyst that also offers a valuable reference for molecular electrocatalyst research in electrochemical nitrogen reduction.
Ambient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides an eco-friendly way for artificial NH3 production, while an efficient NRR process requires active and stable electrocatalysts. In this communication, we exploit the spinel ferrite NiFe2O4 as a promising NRR catalyst. The developed NiFe2O4 nanocubes/reduced graphene oxide (NiFe2O4/RGO) exhibited an appealing NRR performance with an NH3 yield of 32.2 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 9.8% at -0.5 V (RHE), as well as a high catalytic durability. Mechanistic investigations revealed that the surface Fe atoms serve as key NRR active sites for favorable N-2 adsorption and H+ suppression. These findings may facilitate the understanding and exploration of Earth-abundant spinel ferrite catalysts for electrochemical dinitrogen fixation.
Harnessing the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), where renewable electricity and H2O are used for NH3 production, is regarded as an effective and clean protocol for N-2 fixation. The design and development of new active, selective, and durable NRR electrocatalysts are expected to achieve this. Here, we design a well-defined porous core-shell heterostructure comprising Mn2O3-MnO (as the core) and Mn3O4 (as the shell). The unique composite is shown to efficiently facilitate N-2 adsorption and reduction in a neutral electrolyte, delivering an impressive NH3 FE (similar to 23.8%) with a reasonable NH3 formation rate (22.4 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mgcat(-1)) at a cathodic voltage of -0.3 V (versus reversible hydrogen electrode). The electrocatalytic properties can be readily modulated by tuning the shell thickness. Our measured performance surpasses those of most nonmetallic, transition-metal-, and noble-metal-based catalysts reported in the prior literature. Equally importantly, the electrocatalytic activity maintains good stability up to 60 h. The outstanding electrochemical performance is attributed to the combined advantages of a large interface between the metal oxides and a unique core-shell structure with a high density of surface-exposed sites, pores, and oxygen vacancies.
To achieve the energy-effective ammonia (NH3) production via the ambient-condition electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR), it is vital to ingeniously design an efficient electrocatalyst assembling the features of abundant surface deficiency, good dispersibility, high conductivity, and large surface specific area (SSA) via a simple way. Inspired by the fact that the MXene contains thermodynamically metastable marginal transition metal atoms, the oxygen-vacancy-rich TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) in situ grown on the Ti3C2Tx nanosheets (TiO2/Ti3C2Tx) are prepared via a one-step ethanolthermal treatment of the Ti3C2Tx MXene. The oxygen vacancies act as the main active sites for the NH3 synthesis. The highly conductive interior untreated Ti3C2Tx nanosheets could not only facilitate the electron transport but also avoid the self-aggregation of the TiO2 NPs. Meanwhile, the TiO2 NPs generation could enhance the SSA of the Ti3C2Tx in return. Accordingly, the as-prepared electrocatalyst exhibits an NH3 yield of 32.17 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. at -0.55 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a remarkable Faradaic efficiency of 16.07% at -0.45 V versus RHE in 0.1 m HCl, placing it as one of the most promising NRR electrocatalysts. Moreover, the density functional theory calculations confirm the lowest NRR energy barrier (0.40 eV) of TiO2 (101)/Ti3C2Tx compared with Ti3C2Tx or TiO2 (101) alone.
Compared to the Haber-Bosch process, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) can convert N-2 into NH3 under ambient conditions, and thus has attracted considerable attention in recent years. However, it remains a challenge to fabricate NRR catalysts with high faradaic efficiency and yield rate. In this work, by systematic first-principles calculations, we investigate the structure, stability and catalytic performance of single metal atoms anchored on porous monolayer C9N4 (M@C9N4) for the electrochemical NRR. A total of 25 transition metals (Sc-Zn, Zr-Mo, Ru-Ag, Hf-Au) were explored, and we screened out four promising systems, i.e., Nb, Ta, Re and W@C9N4, which not only exhibit high catalytic activity with low limiting potentials of -0.3, -0.42, -0.49 and -0.25 V, respectively, but also have superior selectivity that suppresses the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction. The physical origin lies in the coupling between the d orbitals of the transition metals and the 2 pi* orbital of N-2, which activates the N-2 molecule and facilitates the reduction process. Our proposed systems are kinetically and thermodynamically stable, which may shed light on future design and fabrication of high-efficiency single atom catalysts for various technologically important chemical reactions.
The industrial-scale NH3 production still heavily depends on the Haber-Bosch process, which not only demands high energy consumption but also emits a large amount of CO2. The electrochemical fixation of N-2 to NH3 under ambient conditions is regarded as an eco-friendly and sustainable approach, but stable and efficient electrocatalysts are demanded for the N-2 reduction reaction under ambient conditions. In this communication, ReS2 nanosheet array on carbon cloth (ReS2/CC) is first utilized in NRR. This ReS2/CC exhibits high catalytic activity and strong long-term electrochemical durability. The Faraday efficiency of ReS2/CC is 0.78% and the NH3 yield of ReS2/CC is 3.61 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at -0.4 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M HCl.
Electrochemical dinitrogen reduction (NRR) has riveted substantial attention as a greener method to synthesize ammonia (NH3) under ambient conditions. Here, B, N-containing carbon catalysts with a discrete morphology were synthesized from the metal-organic framework-ionic liquid (MOF-IL) composite for NRR in a neutral electrolyte medium (pH = 7). Morphology dependent activity is witnessed, wherein C-BN@600 with a nanotubular morphology is able to achieve a high NH3 yield rate of 204 mu g h-1 mgcat-1 and an F.E. of 16.7% with a TOF value of 0.2 h-1 at -0.2 V vs RHE. Further, a rigorous protocol is put forward for true NH3 estimation by tracing/eliminating any source of contamination in catalysts, electrolytes, or gas supply via ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectroscopy, gas-purification methods, and isotope labeling experiments. Density functional theory predicts BN to be the favorable active site for N2 adsorption with a reduced energy barrier in the first reduction step and sequential stabilization of the B-N bond by an adjacent carbon atom.
NH3 is one of the most important chemicals with a wide range of applications. NH3 is mainly produced via the Haber-Bosch process, which leads to large energy consumption and carbon emission. Electrochemical reduction has emerged as an environmentally-benign and sustainable alternative for artificial N-2 fixation under ambient conditions, but needs materials to effectively catalyze the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this communication, we report that beta-FeOOH nanorods behave as an efficient and durable NRR electrocatalyst. In 0.5 M LiClO4, such an electrocatalyst achieves a high NH3 yield of 23.32 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 6.7%, outperforming most reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts under ambient conditions. Notably, this catalyst also shows good electrochemical stability and excellent selectivity. The catalytic mechanism of the NRR on the FeOOH(110) surface is further discussed using density functional theory calculations.
The current efficiency of NH3 electrosynthesis from N-2 and H2O is ultralow as a result of poor selectivity in most catalysts. Here, we demonstrate that under ambient conditions, MXene (Ti3C2Tx) nanosheets attached to a vertically aligned metal host can achieve a high faradic efficiency (5.78%) at an ultralow potential for NH3 electrosynthesis. On the basis of experimental and theoretical evidence, the basal plane of MXene is relatively inert, and its higher activity is related to a greater number of exposed edge sites. This work elucidates that significantly improved selectivity of NH3 electrosynthesis can be achieved by tuning active sites and retarding hydrogen evolution activity. The proposed strategy provides a new opportunity to optimize the surface properties of 2D catalysts for efficient N-2 fixation under ambient conditions.
Improving the ammonia yield and Faraday efficiency of ambient electrochemical nitrogen fixation is a priority for altering the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. In this work, positively charged single cobalt atoms anchored on sponge-like nitrogen-doped mesoporous interconnected hollow carbon nanofibers (serving as a Lewis acid pair) were intentionally designed as catalytic centers that can suppress the side effect of the competing hydrogen evolution reaction and simultaneously boost the electrochemical conversion of nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3). The Lewis acid pair catalyst exhibits an NH3 production rate of 67.6 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and a maximum Faraday efficiency of 56.9% at a peak potential of -0.1 V vs. RHE, which outperforms previously reported nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalysts. First-principles DFT calculations suggest the regulation of the local electronic structure that induces Lewis acid pair formation upon charge transfer between the single Co atom and substrate, confirming a high intrinsic NRR by both experiments and theoretical calculations.
Herein, 1T-MoS2 nanospots assembled on conductive Ti3C2 MXene (1T-MoS2@Ti3C2) are first developed to regard as efficient electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation catalysts with high selectivity. The 1T-MoS2@Ti3C2 composite exhibits outstanding NRR activity with a faradic efficiency (FE) of 10.94% and a NH3 yield rate of 30.33 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.3 V versus RHE. Notably, the 1T-MoS2@Ti3C2 composite displays excellent stability and durability during the recycling test. The outstanding NRR catalytic activity is primarily attributed to the synergy effect between 1T-MoS2 and Ti3C2 MXene. In addition, the isotopic experiment confirms the synthesized NH3 deriving from the conversion of the supplied nitrogen.
Electrochemical nitrogen-to-ammonia conversion by the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions is regarded as a potential approach to tackle the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process with excessive CO2 emission. However, the NRR is still restricted by low faradaic efficiency and NH3 yield, which is due to the chemical inertness of N-related groups for efficient adsorption/activation on the electrocatalysts. Here, a series of spinel-structured nanosheet wrapped hollow nitrogen-doped carbon polyhedra with abundant oxygen vacancies are constructed successfully. From theoretical aspects, these materials show increased charge density on their surface for enhanced capture and activation of N-2 molecules. As a result, oxygen vacancy-rich NiCo2O4 on hollow N-carbon polyhedra (V-o-rich NiCo2O4@HNCP) shows outstanding electrocatalytic NRR performance with high production yield (NH3: 4.1 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)/17.8 mu g h(-1) mg(-1); faradaic efficiency: 5.3%) and high stability under ambient conditions and is superior to the counterpart oxygen vacancy-poor electrocatalysts. Oxygen vacancy engineering introduces a new concept for rational design of advanced NRR catalysts for energy conversion systems.
Electrochemical N-2 fixation represents a promising strategy toward sustainable NH3 synthesis, whereas the rational design of high-performance catalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is urgently required but remains challenging. Herein, a novel hexagonal BN quantum dots (BNQDs) decorated Nb2CTx-MXene (BNQDs@Nb2CTx) is explored as an efficient NRR catalyst. BNQDs@Nb2CTx presents the optimum NRR activity with an NH3 yield rate of 66.3 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) (-0.4 V) and a Faradaic efficiency of 16.7% (-0.3 V), outperforming most of the state-of-the-art NRR catalysts, together with an excellent stability. Theoretical calculations revealed that the synergistic interplay of BNQDs and Nb2CTx enabled the creation of unique interfacial B sites serving as NRR catalytic centers capable of enhancing the N-2 activation, lowering the reaction energy barrier and impeding the H-2 evolution.
As one of the most important subjects in chemistry, nitrogen activation and reduction to yield ammonia is still a big challenge. The lack of deep understanding of the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) impedes the development of high-performance catalysts. In the present study, we introduce a second transition metal (M = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, and Mo) into the active site of a single-atom Fe-N-C catalyst to tune the electronic structure and study the activity of the as-designed neighboring bimetal Fe/M-N-C catalyst in the electrochemical NRR under acidic conditions, by performing first-principles calculations. By checking the stability of the catalysts, the adsorption ability for N-2, the Gibbs free energy change for the potential-determining step in the NRR, and the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) activity, only the Fe/Mn-N-C catalyst is predicted to be a promising candidate for the NRR as it shows significantly improved catalytic activity and strong selectivity against the HER. A mechanistic study reveals the synergistic effects of the bimetal active sites, and the introduced Mn atom generates a strong multi-reference effect on the electronic configuration to create more tunnels to transfer the d-orbital electrons to activate the inert N & xe002;N triple bond, inducing the acceptance-donation process to facilitate the activation and reduction of N-2. The current results provide an effective strategy to design stable, active, and selective catalysts for the electrochemical NRR.
Ammonia (NH3) is a significant energy source, in addition to its conventional uses for inorganic fertilizers, explosives, dyes, and resins. Recently, there has been tremendous interest towards electrochemical NH3 synthesis via nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions, to substitute the conventional Haber-Bosch process. In this review, the fundamentals and mechanism for electrochemical nitrogen fixation are summarized. The NRR performances for all the important electrocatalysts with a special focus on two-dimensional (2D) materials, and theoretical insights from recent literature are comprehensively summarized. Among them, 2D materials are especially promising due to the versatile tools that can be leveraged for the structure design. Based on these studies, guidelines for achieving high selectivity and high NRR catalytic activity are provided. Strategies for the catalyst design, cell configuration, and electrolyte choices to tackle several challenges related to NRR are delineated in a holistic way. Furthermore, important aspect of environmental contamination effect is also discussed. This review provides direction for electrochemical catalyst engineering and guidance for experimental practices to explore the realm of electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction.
Electrochemical techniques for ammonia synthesis are considered as an encouraging energy conversion technology to efficiently meet the challenge of nitrogen cycle balance. Herein, we find that TiO2(101)(-)supported Ni-4 and Ni-13 clusters can serve as efficient catalysts for electrocatalytic N-2 reduction based on theoretical calculations. Electronic property calculations reveal the formation of electron-deficient Ni clusters on the TiO2 surface, which provides multiple active sites for N-2 adsorption and activation. Theoretical calculation identifies the strongest activated configuration of N-2* on the catalysts and confirms the potential-limiting step in the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). On Ni-4-TiO2(101), N-2* -> NNH* is the potential-limiting step with a very small free energy increase (Delta G) of 0.24 eV (the corresponding overpotential is 0.33 V), while on Ni1(3)-TiO2(101) the potential-limiting step occurs at NH* -> NH2* with Delta G of 0.49 eV (the corresponding overpotential is 0.58 V). Moreover, the Ni-n-TiO2(101) catalyst, especially Ni-13-TiO2(101), involves in a highly selective NRR even at the corresponding NRR overpotential. This work will enlighten material design to construct metal oxide supported transition metal clusters for the highly efficient NRR and NH3 synthesis.
The electrochemical conversion of N2 to NH3 using a polymeric electrolyte reactor is a promising method to accelerate the green production of hydrogen carriers. On this basis, we report the efficiency of ammonia pro-duction by the nitrogen reduction reaction using a Cu/C catalyst in a polymeric electrolyte membrane reactor. The Cu/C catalyst was prepared by the NaBH4 reduction method and characterized by X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, cyclic voltammetry, and conversion experiments performed in a polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cell type reactor. The X-ray diffraction results showed the presence of CuO2 and carbon phases, while the TEM images showed a high agglomeration of copper nanoparticles on carbon. The onset potential of nitrogen reduction was near to the Cu (I) to Cu0 reduction peak. Mass spectroscopy was used to observe the production of N2H2 and NH3 and the consumption of N2. Maximum ammonia production was detected at 0.0 V with a NH3 yield rate of 38.4 mu g h-1 cm-2 and a faradaic efficiency of 42.57 %.
Achieving an efficient electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) remains a great challenge, demanding the development of a new strategy for ENRR catalyst engineering. Herein, we demonstrate a largely improved ENRR by the controlled engineering of Ru nanowires with atomic Pt decoration. Specifically, the readily synthesized Ru88Pt12 nanowires exhibit a high NH3 production rate of 47.1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and faradaic efficiency of 8.9% at -0.2 V, which are 5.3 and 14.6 times higher than those values for Ru nanowires. They also show outstanding stability, as evidenced by the full preservation of the NH3 yield and faradaic efficiency even after 15 h of electrocatalysis. As revealed by theoretical investigations, the d-band center of Ru atoms is upshifted by the tensile strain due to the presence of Pt atoms, leading to the selective enhancement of N-2 adsorption and the stabilization of N2H*. Such an atomic engineering method may be applied to precisely tailor other metal nanocatalysts for different applications.
Electrochemical ammonia production under ambient conditions remains a grand challenge. Herein, we demonstrate that efficient binding and reduction of N-2 at low overpotentials can be realized over WO3 with tailored surface oxygen vacancies, as predicted by density functional theory studies and evidenced by an NH3 yield rate of 4.2 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 6.8% at -0.12 V (vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode). A high NH3 faradaic efficiency of up to 12.8% is obtained at an overpotential of only 80 mV, which can even be further improved by increasing the electrolyte pH to suppress the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. This low-cost metal oxide holds great appeal as one of the most promising electrocatalysts for efficient N-2 fixation.
Electrosynthesis of ammonia using nitrogen and water provides a potential alternative to the thermochemical process (Haber-Bosch) in a clean, sustainable, and decentralized way when electricity is generated from renewable sources. To enable the widespread commercialization of this technology, an electrocatalyst to convert nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) with high selectivity and activity must be developed. Here, we report our findings in the investigation into the role of incorporating palladium (Pd) in bimetallic Au-Ag nanocages on the electrocatalytic activity of the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. The localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) peak position of the resulting trimetallic nanoparticles is tuned with Pd concentration, achieving the highest electrocatalytic NRR activity (NH3 yield rate = 5.80 mu g cm(-2) h(-1), Faradaic efficiency = 48.94%) using Au-Ag-Pd-850 nanoparticles at -0.3 V vs RHE. This activity corresponds to the production energy efficiency of 28.9% with an electrical energy input of 19.1 MWh / ton (NH3). The enhanced NRR activity is attributed mainly to the formation of a highly porous Pd layer with remarkably high surface area active for NRR. In addition, operando surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) is used to probe the mechanism of NRR on the trimetallic nanostructures and to identify the intermediate species at the electrode-electrolyte interface. (c) 2020 The Author(s). Published on behalf of The Electrochemical Society by IOP Publishing Limited. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (CC BY, http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted reuse of the work in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction to ammonia has attracted abundant research interest due to its mild operation condition and sustainable feedstock. The identification of efficient catalysts with high selectivity of nitrogen reduction is the key for the electro-synthesis of ammonia. Herein, interstitial boron-doped nanoporous palladium film is directly formed on Ni foam (nPdB/NF) via micelle-assisted reduction method using borane dimethylamine complex as reducing agents and boron dopant. The binder-free nanoporous structure provides abundant active sites and facilitated mass/charge transfer. Moreover, the introduction of interstitial boron atoms can modify the electronic structure of Pd, which can both improve the nitrogen adsorption and inhibit hydrogen evolution on nPdB/NF. As such, nPdB/NF exhibits high NH3 yield of 29.0 mu g h-1 mg-cat.1 and Faraday efficiency of 17.9% in 0.1 M Na2SO4, superior to that of nPd/NF (19.7 mu g h-1 mg- 1 cat and 14.7%). This work offers an attractive method for the introduction of interstitial boron into Pd-based catalysts to improve NRR performance.
The production of ammonia (NH3) at ambient conditions has always faced enormous challenges in chemical industry. In this study, the potential of the electrocatalysts of transition-metal-embedded (TM = Sc, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd and Ag) graphdiyne monolayer (TM@GDY) has been systematically investigated as nitrogen (N-2) Reduction Reaction (NRR) by Density Functional Theory (DFT). The results reveal that Mo-embedded graphdiyne monolayer (Mo@GDY) has high stability, high electrical conductivity and excellent catalytic activity with ultra-low onset potential (-0.33 V) by distal mechanism. The ultra-low onset potential is attributed to much stronger interactions between hydrogen and the next nearest nitrogen atoms (H-N2) for the distal mechanism compared with the enzymatic mechanism (-1.03 V) during the first hydrogenation. Moreover, Mo@GDY can also effectively suppress the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER) during the entire NRR process. This study may provide a new approach for electrochemical N-2 reduction to form NH3 at ambient conditions.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction under mild conditions has been regarded as a promising alternative to the conventional Haber-Bosch process. In the electrochemical reaction, a highly efficient catalyst plays an important role. Herein, we studied a series of bimetallic atoms catalysts, namely, two transition metal atoms doped on the PC6 monolayer (TM2@PC6, TM = Cr, Mn, Fe, Co. Ni, Mo, Ru, Rh, W, and Ir), to examine the electrocatalytic performance for nitrogen reduction reaction by employing the density functional theory computations. Co-2@PC6 is screened out to be the best candidate for the N-2 reduction, which has high Faradaic efficiency and lowest limiting potential of -0.28 V, followed by Mo-2@PC6, and Fe-2@PC6 with limiting potentials of -0.46, and -0.50 V, respectively. These predicted candidates have comparable or even better NRR catalytic activity than the other common two-dimensional materials. The N2H* formation is the potential-determining step for these catalysts. N-2 with side-on adsorption configuration (occurred only for Co-2@PC6) has the best NRR performance. This work not only provides the potential NRR catalyst but also gives insight into the mechanism to advance the development of efficient NRR catalysts.
The development of electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions as an alternative to traditional high-temperature ammonia synthesis is a vibrant research topic due to the potential to significantly reduce the energy consumption required for the production of ammonia. Several noble metal-based materials have already been identified as highly active electrocatalysts for this purpose. However, the development of nonprecious metal-based electrocatalysts is necessary for realizing cost-effective ammonia synthesis at large scales. This work has explored the potential of the less exploited transition metal phosphorus trichalcogenide NiPS3 as an NRR electrocatalyst. Excellent NRR activities have been achieved by exfoliating bulk NiPS3 into bi- or trT layered nanosheets. The NH3 yield attained using exfoliated NiPS3 is 118 mu g h(-1) mg(eat)(-1) with a Faraday efficiency of > 17 % at an applied potential of -0.4 V vs RHE. The NRR performance of exfoliated NiPS3 in terms of NH3 yield surpasses many non-noble metal-based catalysts reported in the literature. Further, it also exhibited a stable NRR activity of > 90% even after several repetitive cycles. Plane-wave DFT calculations at the GGA U level have been used to investigate the reaction pathways. It could be shown that the NNR follows an associative mechanism, with the very first hydrogenation step being the potential determining step.
Developing small scale nitrogen to ammonia conversion devices could greatly help sustainable agriculture. The lack of effective cathode materials for reduction of nitrogen to ammonia puts a major limitation on developing small scale electrochemical ammonia production devices that can operate at low pressures and temperatures. In this study, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) mechanism is investigated over late transition metals. Activation barriers for possible rate limiting steps are calculated using density functional theory (DFT) methods and are converted to potential dependent electrochemical barriers. Associative and dissociative paths are evaluated and the associative path shows lower barriers on all metals considered at NRR potentials. BrOnsted-Evans-Polanyi (BEP) relationships are evaluated for rate limiting steps and a kinetic volcano is demonstrated for catalyst optimization. Rhodium (Rh) and iron (Fe) appear to have the lowest kinetic barriers to convert N-2 to NH3. A large over-potential, however, is required to convert nitrogen to ammonia over all the surfaces considered. The hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) has a lower activation barrier compared to NRR, demonstrating the kinetic selectivity challenge.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) represents a highly promising process to ammonia synthesis for artificial N-2 fixation. However, the yield rate for NH3 production and Faradaic efficiency (FE) are still low, which greatly hinder its widespread applications. Until now, although a variety of catalysts, including single-atom catalysts, have been developed for NRR in the pursuit of suppressing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the corresponding d G higher FE, the limited NH3 yield rate makes them uncompetitive for the synthesis of ammonia. Herein, we report a Fe single-atom catalyst anchoring on a nitrogen-doped carbon substrate (Fe SAC/N-C) as a highly efficient NRR catalyst. The catalyst achieves a high FE of 39.6% in 0.1 M KOH under room temperature, particularly a dramatically enhanced NH3 yield rate of 53.12 mu g(NH3) h-1 mg(cat)(-1). The isotopic labeling (N-15(2)) experiment confirms that the NH3 production completely originates from N-2 reduction. Meanwhile, theoretical calculations and X-ray fine structure in a maximum activation of NRR intermediates to produce ammonia with a high yield rate.
Understanding the correlation between exposed surfaces and performances of controlled nano catalysts can aid effective strategies to enhance electrocatalysis, but this is as yet unexplored for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Here, we first report controlled synthesis of well-defined Pt3Fe nanocrystals with tunable morphologies (nanocube, nanorod and nanowire) as ideal model electrocatalysts for investigating the NRR on different exposed facets. The detailed electro catalytic studies reveal that the Pt3Fe nano crystals exhibit shape-dependent NRR electrocatalysis. The optimized Pt3Fe nanowires bounded with high-index facets exhibit excellent selectivity (no N2H4 is detected), high activity with NH3 yield of 18.3 mu gh(-)(1) mg(-1) cat (0.52 mu gh(-)(1) cm(ECSA)(-)(2); ECSA: electrochemical active surface area) and Faraday efficiency of 7.3% at -0.05 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, outperforming the {200} facet-enclosed Pt3Fe nanocubes and {111} facet-enclosed Pt3Fe nanorods. They also show good stability with negligible activity change after five cycles. Density functional theory calculations reveal that, with high-indexed facet engineering, the Fe-3d band is an efficient d-d coupling correlation center for boosting the Pt 5d-electronic exchange and transfer activities towards the NRR.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) for the ammonia production under ambient con-ditions is regarded as a sustainable alternative to the industrial Haber-Bosch process. However, the elec-trocatalytic systems that efficiently catalyze nitrogen reduction remain elusive. In the work, the nitrogen reduction activity of the transition metal decorated bismuthene TM@Bis is fully investigated by means of density functional theory calculations. Our results demonstrate that W@Bis delivers the best efficiency, wherein the potential-determining step is located at the last protonation step of *NH2 + H ++ e - -> *NH3 via the distal mechanism with the limiting potential UL of 0.26 V. Furthermore, the dopants of Re and Os are also promising candidates for experimental synthesis due to its good selectivity, in despite of the slightly higher UL of NRR with the value of 0.55 V. However, the candidates of Ti, V, Nb and Mo delivered the relative lower UL of 0.35, 0.37, 0.41 and 0.43 V might be suffered from the side hydrogen evolution reaction. More interestingly, a volcano curve is established between UL and valence electrons of metal elements wherein W with 4 electrons in d band located at the summit. Such phenomenon originates from the underlying acceptance-back donation mechanism. Therefore, our work provides a fundament understanding for the material design for nitrogen reduction electrocatalysis.(c) 2023 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Chemical Society and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences.
Electrochemical dinitrogen reduction (NRR) has emerged as one of the most promising potential alternatives to the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process for clean and carbon-free ammonia (NH3) production. However, the major setback in this electrochemical synthesis is the selectivity between NRR and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) that leads to poor faradaic efficiency. The competition between NRR and HER is underexplored, and the existing ex situ NH3 and H-2 detection methods do not provide the real-time detection of products formed near the electrode surface with high spatial resolution. Therefore, the operando investigation of NH4+ production during electrochemical N-2 reduction and its competition with HER was demonstrated using scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) via the sample generation-tip collection (SG-TC) mode. A distinct net current density difference was observed at an Au-ultramicroelectrode (UME) during sequential chronoamperometry and the visualization of local catalytic activity over the catalyst in Ar- and N-2-saturated electrolytes. Therefore, this study provides invaluable information on the competition between the NRR and the HER at applied potentials within milliseconds and also visualization with high spatial resolution and accuracy.
Electrochemical N-c reduction has been regarded as one of the most promising approaches to producing ammonia under mild conditions, but there are remaining pressing challenges in improving the reaction rate and efficiency. Herein, an unconventional galvanic replacement reaction is reported to fabricate a unique hierarchical structure composed of Fe3O4-CeO2 bimetallic nanotubes covered by Fe2O3 ultrathin nanosheets. Control experiments reveal that CeO2 species play the essential role of stabilizer for Fe2+ cations. Compared with bare CeO2 and Fe2O3 nanotubes, the as-obtained Fe2O3/Fe3O4-CeO2 possesses a remarkably enhanced NH3 yield rate (30.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (26.3%). The enhancement can be attributed to the hierarchical feature that makes electrodes more easily to contact with electrolytes. More importantly, as verified by density functional theory calculations, the generation of Fe2O3-Fe3O4 heterogeneous junctions can efficiently optimize the reaction pathways, and the energy barrier of the potential determining step (the *N-2 hydrogenates into *N*NH) is significantly decreased.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen (N2) reduction reaction (NRR) is an energy-saving approach to synthesize ammonia (NH3), which significantly depends on the development of high-efficiency electrocatalysts. Inspired by the catalytic microenvironment of enzymes, a series of yolk-shell nanostructures of monodispersed Au nanostars within porous organic polymers (POPs) have been successfully prepared via a self-sacrificing template strategy. The obtained yolk-shell nanocomposites have highly active Au nanostar cores and permeable POP shells for ambient electrocatalytic NRR to NH3. The hydrophobic properties of yolk-shell nanoreactors can be tailored accurately by engineering the POP shells at an atomic level, which greatly improves the N2 fixation performance by inhibiting the hydrogen evolution reaction, resulting in the unprecedented NH3 yield rate (-109.1 mu g h-1 mgcat. -1 ) and Faradaic efficiency (-68.3 %). This work pioneers an effective strategy to construct tailor-made electrocatalysts for the N2-to-NH3 fixation.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) can allow the production of ammonia from nitrogen and water under ambient conditions and is regarded as a sustainable alternative to the industrial Haber-Bosch process. However, electrocatalytic systems that selectively and efficiently catalyse nitrogen reduction remain elusive due to the strong competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction. Here, we report a strategy to simultaneously promote ENRR selectivity and activity using bismuth nanocrystals and potassium cations. Bismuth exhibits higher intrinsic ENRR activity than transition metals due to the strong interaction between the Bi 6p band and the N 2p orbitals. Potassium cations stabilize key nitrogen-reduction intermediates and regulate proton transfer to increase the selectivity. A high Faradaic efficiency of 66% and ammonia yield of 200 mmol g(-1)h(-1) (0.052 mmol cm(-2) h(-1)) are obtained in aqueous electrolyte under ambient conditions. This strategy represents a general method to expand the library of catalysts and promoters for the selective electrochemical reduction of stable molecules.
Following the guidance of nitrogenase, the natural iron-based catalysts with remarkably high activity in nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) may be a talent option to develop artificial molecular mimics. However, the electrochemical NRR process of iron-based catalysts still suffers from the high overpotential, poor lifespan, and slow reaction kinetics of the hydrogenation process. Through a controllable etching and in-situ carbonating process, a Pt-doped FeP/C hollow nanorod catalysts was fabricated. Driven by the doped Pt atom, the catalyst solves the key kinetic problem about insufficient proton feeding in the process of nitrogen reduction, and actively transfers protons to intermediates of the hydrogenation steps in NRR. Moreover, the as-prepared catalyst presents the highest NH3 yield value of 10.22 mu g h-1 cm-2 among multitudinous Fe based catalysts at lower potential of -0.05 V (vs. RHE) with an excellent Faraday efficiency (FE) of 15.3 %, which is higher than FeP/C without the Pt-driven proton-feeding effect, and the cathodic current density presents no significant change within 50 h. In addition, the density functional theory (DFT) and Attenuated total reflection surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectrum (ATR-SEIRAS) results verify the reaction path and protons-feeding kinetic process.
Nanostructure tailoring is considered as an efficient strategy to design high-performance electrocatalysts for improving electrocatalytic properties by exposing more active sites and promoting rapid electron transfer. Unfortunately, nanomaterials with a well-constructed morphology for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions are insufficient, and the yield rate and faradaic efficiency are still not high. Herein, NiFe-MoS2 nanocubes (NiFe@MoS2 NCs) are successfully synthesized derived from the corresponding Prussian blue analog self-templating strategy. Owing to its four-pointed star face-dependent hollow structure and trimetallic synergistic interactions, it largely exposes abundant active sites, making it present superb electrocatalytic performance for N-2 conversion to NH3. In a 0.1 M Na2SO4 electrolyte, these as-prepared Ni-Fe@MoS2 NCs exhibit a significant NH3 yield of 128.17 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a satisfactory faradaic efficiency of 11.34% at -0.3 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) operation at 40 degrees C. The stability of the catalyst was determined by performing 15 hour continuous N-2 reduction with a constant current density. The possible NRR catalytic paths, mechanism and electron transfer paths are elucidated in detail by in situ electrochemical-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy combined with density functional theory calculations. This work offers new inspirations to the development of various cost-effective electrocatalysts for N-2 fixation.
Developing efficient noble-metal-free catalysts for the electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions shows promise in fertilizer production and hydrogen storage. Here, as a proof-of-concept prototype, we design and implement an Fe-N/C-carbon nanotube (CNT) catalyst derived from a metal-organic framework and carbon-nanotube-based composite with built-in Fe-N-3 active sites. This catalyst exhibits enhanced NRR activity with NH3 production (34.83 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat.)(-1)), faradaic efficiency (9.28% at -0.2 V vs RHE), selectivity, and stability in 0.1 M KOH aqueous media under mild conditions. Experimental and theoretical results both reveal that Fe-N-3 species are the primary catalytically active centers for the NRR. This work provides insight into precise construction of more efficient and stable NRR electrocatalysts and further expands the possibilities of transition metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C)-based nanomaterials in NRR fields.
Synthesis of ammonia through electrochemical nitrogen reduction (ENR) is emerging as one of the attractive research areas in recent years, notwithstanding the enormous challenges it faces in quantification of ammonia at very low concentrations. Several reports claiming high production rate are unwittingly compromised by the accuracy of analyzing a very low concentration (<1 ppm) of ammonia in the electrolyte post-ENR reaction using the indophenol method. Therefore, in this work, we have highlighted the significance of selecting and standardizing a right protocol encompassing admissible levels of oxidants and a complexing agent, citrate (to mitigate the effect of interfering metal ions), through elaborate control experiments. In addition, the importance of setting the lowest limit of ammonia concentration that can be accurately quantified by the indophenol method is also justified. Further, the experimental observations were summarized into a protocol, which was followed to re-evaluate the performance of two well-claimed electrocatalysts for ENR reported recently in the literature.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction is a sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for ambient NH3 synthesis, but it needs efficient and stable catalysts. Herein, a hybrid of TiO2 and juncus effusus-derived carbon microtubes with a three-dimensional cross-linked hollow tubular structure is proposed as an efficient electrocatalyst for N-2-to-NH3 conversion at ambient conditions. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, this catalyst offers a large NH3 yield of 20.03 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 10.76% at -0.50 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, with superior electrochemical and structural stability.
To overcome the low faradaic efficiency (FE) of single Mo or Fe based electrocatalysts in nitrogen reduction reactions (NRR) due to the competition from the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), a series of bimetallic MoFe compound catalysts were prepared under an NH3 atmosphere through a facile precipitation-pyrolysis method. The formed tetravalent Mo was found to be capable of inducing better electronic interactions between the surface nitrogen species and the Fe metal groups, thus improving the FE. It was demonstrated that the prepared ternary MoFe-N catalyst exhibited a remarkable FE of 33.26 % and a high NH3 yield rate of 33.31 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) (cat.) for NRR, which was believed to have been caused by an obvious change in the valence of Mo that resulted in a lower HER activity. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis further revealed that thermal processing under an NH3 atmosphere formed the Mo(IV) active sites in Mo-N bond, which led to a significant suppression in HER activity. Finally, through the study of the surface hydrogenation mechanism, it was concluded that the synergistic effect of the adsorbed H* and Mo active sites was the main reason for the improved performance of NRR.
Electrocatalytic ammonia (NH3) conversion under ambient atmosphere is crucial to mimic the nature???s nitrogen cycle. But currently it is always interrupted by the HER process which is more competitive. Herein, we tactically cultivate a series of incompletely etched Ti3AlC2 MAX / Ti3C2 MXene based heterostructure catalysts whose composition can be finely tuned through regulation of the LiF percentage in mixed chemical etching agent. Notably, the surface potential difference between MAX and MXene is similar to 40 mV, indicating that the electron can be readily transferred from MAX to MXene across the interfaces, which is favorable for N2 fixation, yielding an outstanding Faradic efficiency of 36.9%. Furthermore, density functional theory calculations reveal the billiard -like catalysis mechanism, where the intermediates are alternatively adsorbed on MAX or MXene surfaces. Meanwhile, the rate-determining step of *NH -> *NH2 possesses an energy barrier of 0.96 eV on the hetero-interface which follows associative distal mechanism. This work opens a new frontier of heterostructured catalyst for balancing electrical conductivity and catalytic activity in electrocatalysis.
As an environmentally-benign and sustainable option for NH3 synthesis, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is expected to replace the traditional Haber-Bosch process. Transition metals with empty d-orbitals achieve NRR activity via a pi back-donation process. However, the problem in overcoming hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) competition makes the exploration of transition metal-based catalysts with relatively inferior HER activity worthwhile. The challenges lie in designing a rational structure for efficient NRR. Herein, Ni3+ and oxygen vacancies were synergistically integrated on NiO@TiO2 by magnetron sputtering, which provide this transition-metal oxide-based (TMO-based) material with pi back-donation behavior. Accordingly, NiO@TiO2 exhibited NH3 yield (similar to 10.75 mu g h(-1) cm(cat.)(-2)) and faradaic efficiency (similar to 9.83%), which are nearly 10-fold higher relative to those of TiO2 in neutral media. This work provides an efficient strategy for engineering pi back-donation sites, and holds great potential in exploring new TMO-based electrocatalysts.
The development of a sustainable route to ammonia production is one of the most attractive targets in chemistry. The primary method of ammonia production, Haber-Bosch process, can bring about excessive consumption of fossil fuels and large CO2 emission. In this communication, we develop a VN nanowire array on carbon cloth (VN/CC) as a high-performance catalyst for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. Such an electrocatalyst achieves high ammonia yield (2.48 x 10(-10) mol(-1) s(-1) cm(-2)) and faradaic efficiency (3.58%) at -0.3 V versus RHE in 0.1 M HCl, outperforming most reported results for N-2 fixation under ambient conditions, and even comparing favorably with those obtained under high temperatures and/or pressures. This work not only provides us an attractive catalyst material for the NRR in acidic media, but would also open up an exciting new avenue to the rational design and fabrication of transition metal nitrides for the NRR.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to ammonia has recently attracted a great deal of interest as a possible renewable energy-driven alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. However, the detection of NH3 after attempting electrocatalytic reduction of N-2 can be hampered by low NH3 yields, ambient NH3 contamination, and the need for multistep chemical separation of NH3 from the electrolyte. Herein, we report a frequency-selective pulse nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) method and quantify the efficacy of this method to measure the concentration of NH3 (present in the assay as NH4+) in an electrolyte after electrocatalysis. This NMR method was demonstrated to be effective in a variety of nondeuterated, nonaqueous and aqueous electrolytes, and did not require the separation of NH3 from the electrolyte. NH3 sensitivity down to 1 mu M was readily achieved with isotopic and chemical specificity. Compatible electrolytes and solvents included ethanol, tetrahydrofuran, dimethyl sulfoxide, acetonitrile, propylene carbonate, diethyl either, hexanes, and water. The efficacy of the commonly employed Berthelot method was also quantified and compared to the NMR method in a range of nonaqueous and aqueous electrolytes, including ethanol, THF, propylene carbonate, and water.
The design and development of low-cost and highly efficient electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction is crucial for NH3 synthesis. Herein, by means of comprehensive density functional theory (DFT) calculations and thermodynamic analysis, the catalytic mechanisms of N-2 to NH3 conversion on single Fe atom embedded in single vacancy and N-doped graphene are systematically investigated. Significantly, the magnetic moment of Fe atom varies with the coordination of neighboring N atom. An approximately linear scaling is found between the adsorption energy of N atom (Delta E-N*) and Fe magnetic moment. The increased magnetic moment of Fe atom can strengthen the Delta E-N*, and promote the charge transfer between the N-2 molecule and substrates, resulting in a substantially lower overpotential for N-2 electroreduction. Our results highlight an important role of Fe magnetism in N-2 activation, which offers a novel strategy for inspiring the rational design of highly efficient carbon-based materials for N-2 fixation and conversion. (c) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Traditionally, ammonia (NH3) is synthesized via the Haber-Bosch process, which is not only commanded by harsh conditions but causes serious environmental pollution. Electrochemical reduction is recognized as a mild and environmentally benign alternative approach for NH3 synthesis, but an efficient electrocatalyst is a prerequisite for NH3 production. In this communication, the first experimental demonstration that Mn3O4 nanocubes can be used as an efficient non-noble-metal electrocatalyst for N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions is reported. In 0.1 m Na2SO4 aqueous solution, the catalyst delivers excellent NRR activity with an NH3 yield of 11.6 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 3.0% at -0.8 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, this catalyst also possesses satisfactory durability during the electrolysis and recycling test.
Surface structure effect is the key subject in electrocatalysis, and consists of the structure dependence of interaction between reaction molecules and the catalyst surface in specifying the surface atomic arrangement, chemical composition and electronic structure. Herein, we develop a controllable synthesis of Pt-RE (RE = La, Y, Sc) alloy concave nanocubes (PtRENCs) with {410} high-index facets (HIFs) by an electrochemical method in a choline chloride-urea based deep eutectic solvent. The PtRENCs are used as an efficient catalyst in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction to ammonia (NH3). Owing to the high density of low-coordinated Pt step sites (HIF structure) and the unique electronic effect of Pt-RE, the as-prepared PtRENCs exhibit an excellent electrocatalytic performance for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. The NH3 yield rate and faradaic efficiency (FE) share the same trend of Pt-La (rNH3: 71.4 mu g h-1 mu gcat-1, FE: 35.6%) > Pt-Y (rNH3: 65.2 mu g h-1 mu gcat-1, FE: 26.7%) > Pt-Sc (rNH3: 48.5 mu g h-1 mu gcat-1, FE: 19%) > Pt (rNH3: 25.8 mu g h-1 mu gcat-1, FE: 10.7%). Moreover, the PtRENCs demonstrate high selectivity for N2 reduction to NH3 and high stability retaining 90% of the NH3 yield rate and FE values after 12 h continuous NRR tests. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the rate determining step of the NRR process is the formation of N2H2* from N2 with the transfer of two proton-coupled electrons, and the upshift of the d-band center boosts the NRR activity by enhancing the bonding strength of reaction intermediates on the high-index faceted Pt-RE (RE = La, Y, Sc) alloying surface. In addition, the introduction of RE (RE = La, Y, Sc) on the Pt step surface can effectively suppress the HER process and provide appropriate sites for the NRR.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides a sustainable and alternative avenue to the Haber-Bosch process for ammonia (NH3) synthesis. Despite the great efforts made on catalysts and electrolytes, unfortunately, current NRR suffers from low selectivity due to the overwhelming competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Here, we present an adjusted three-phase interface to enhance nitrogen (N-2) coverage on a catalyst surface and achieve a record-high Faradic efficiency (FE) up to 97% in aqueous solution. The almost entirely suppressed HER process combined with the enhanced NRR activity, benefiting from the efficient three-interface contact line, is responsible for the excellent selectivity toward NH3, as evidenced by the theoretical and experimental results. Our strategy also demonstrates the applicability to other catalysts that feature strong H adsorption ability, to boost the FE for NH3 synthesis above 90% and to improve the NRR activity by engineering the catalysts.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) to produce ammonia (NH3) has attracted extensive attention as a promising technology for improving the Haber-Bosch process. However, the strong stability of the nitrogennitrogen triple bonds and the difficulty of nitrogen adsorption still eNRR leaves with many difficulties. In this paper, interface engineering was developed by porous Fe3O4 nanospheres supported on MoS2 nanosheets (Fe3O4@MoS2) for high-efficiency eNRR process. This is mainly due to the synergistic effect of Fe and Mo, as well as the increasement in surface area and active sites caused by porous and sheets nanostructure. Specifically, at 0.5 V vs. RHE, the Fe3O4@MoS2 exhibits excellent catalytic performance with the NH3 yield rate of 73.24 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1).and Faraday efficiency of 8.22%, respectively. Density functional theory calculations show that the synergistic effect of Fe3O4 and MoS2 can promote the eNRR process efficiently.
Renewable energy-driven, electrocatalytic nitrogen reductionreaction(NRR) is a promising strategy for ammonia synthesis. However, improvingcatalyst activity and selectivity under ambient conditions has longbeen challenging. In this work, we obtained the potential active V-Ncenter through theoretical prediction and successfully constructedthe associated V-N-2/N-3 structure on N-dopedcarbon materials. Surprisingly, such a catalyst exhibits excellentelectrocatalytic NRR performance. The V-N-2 catalystaffords a remarkably high faradaic efficiency of 76.53% and an NH3 yield rate of 31.41 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mgCat. -1 at -0.3 V vs RHE. The structural characterizationand density functional theory (DFT) calculations verified that thehigh performance of the catalyst originates from the tuned d-bandupon coordination with nitrogen, in line with the original designintention as derived theoretically. Indeed, the V-N-2 center with carbon defects enhances dinitrogen adsorption and chargetransfer, thereby lowering the energy barriers to form the *NNH intermediates.Such a strategy as a rational design-controllable synthesis-theoreticalverification may prove effective as well for other chemical processes.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides a sustainable approach for ambient N-2 fixation. Non-noble transition metal-based electrocatalysts (TMEs) are emerging as the most promising NRR catalysts, but commonly exhibited limited NRR activity. Heteroatom doping is an effective method to improve the electrocatalytic activity of TMEs by finely modulating the electronic structures. Herein, as a proof-of-concept, nitrogen-doped NiO nanosheet array on carbon cloth (N-NiO/CC) was investigated as model heteroatom-doped TMEs for NRR. The N-NiO/CC exhibited the considerably enhanced NRR performance with a NH3 yield of 22.7 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) and an FE of 7.3 % in 0.1 M LiClO4 at -0.5 V (vs. RHE), far superior to those of undoped counterpart. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that the N-doping could induce the enhanced surface conductivity and upraised d-band center, leading to promoted *NNH stabilization, reduced reaction energy barrier and thus improved NRR performance.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction provides an attractive alternative to Haber-Bosch process for artificial NH3 synthesis. The difficulty of suppressing competing proton reduction, however, largely impedes its practical use. Herein, we design a hydrophobic octadecanethiol-modified Fe3P nanoarrays supported on carbon paper (C18@Fe3P/CP) to effectively repel water, concentrate N-2, and enhance N-2-to-NH3 conversion. Such catalyst achieves an NH3 yield of 1.80 x 10(-10) mol.s(-1).cm(-2) and a high Faradaic efficiency of 11.22% in 0.1 M Na2SO4, outperforming the non-modified Fe3P/CP (2.16 x 10(-11) mol.s(-1).cm(-2), 0.9%) counterpart. Significantly, C18@Fe3P/CP renders steady N-2-fixing activity/selectivity in cycling test and exhibits durability for at least 25 h. First-principles calculations suggest that the surface electronic structure and chemical activity of Fe3P can be well tuned by the thiol modification, which facilitates N-2 electroreduction activity and catalytic formation of NH3.
The discovery of stable and noble-metal-free catalysts toward efficient electrochemical reduction of nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) is highly desired and significantly critical for the earth nitrogen cycle. Here, based on the theoretical predictions, MoS2 is first utilized to catalyze the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under room temperature and atmospheric pressure. Electrochemical tests reveal that such catalyst achieves a high Faradaic efficiency (1.17%) and NH3 yield (8.08 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-1)) at -0.5 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 m Na2SO4. Even in acidic conditions, where strong hydrogen evolution reaction occurs, MoS2 is still active for the NRR. This work represents an important addition to the growing family of transition-metal-based catalysts with advanced performance in NRR.
The nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising pathway toward the decarbonization of ammonia (NH3) production. However, unless practical challenges related to the detection of NH3 are removed, confidence in published data and experimental throughput will remain low for experiments in aqueous electrolyte. In this perspective, we analyze these challenges from a system and instrumentation perspective. Through our analysis we show that detection challenges can be strongly reduced by switching from an H-cell to a gas diffusion electrode (GDE) cell design as a catalyst testing platform. Specifically, a GDE cell design is anticipated to allow for a reduction in the cost of crucial N-15(2) control experiments from (sic)100-2000 to less than (sic)10. A major driver is the possibility to reduce the N-15(2) flow rate to less than 1 mL/min, which is prohibited by an inevitable drop in mass-transport at low flow rates in H-cells. Higher active surface areas and improved mass transport can further circumvent losses of NRR selectivity to competing reactions. Additionally, obstacles often encountered when trying to transfer activity and selectivity data recorded at low current density in H-cells to commercial device level can be avoided by testing catalysts under conditions close to those in commercial devices from the start.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction can be adopted to generate renewable ammonia. That is recognized as a sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. However, the limited electrocatalytic activity remains the primary obstacle against viable application of the electrocatalytic ammonia fixation. Herein, a biomimetic three-dimensional NiCoP/CoMoP/Co(Mo3Se4)(4) @C/NF electrocatalyst is designed to have excellent NRR performance with an NH3 yield rate of 24.54 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and Faradaic efficiency of 23.15%. Based on the experimental and theoretical results, NiCoP/CoMoP/Co(Mo3Se4)(4) @C/NF electrocatalyst perfectly simulates the structural characteristics of biological nitrogenase, where Co(Mo3Se4)(4) acts as the major active center while NiCoP and CoMoP contribute to controlling the electron transfer during NRR. Additionally, the coexistence of the three different heterojunction interfaces induces more effective electronic structure modulation compared with the single interface, thereby optimizing the reaction energy barrier of intermediates. This work has developed a synergistic strategy to boost the reaction kinetics via introducing multiple heterojunction interfaces.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction provides a green and sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch technology for NH3 synthesis. However, the extreme inertness of N-2 molecules is a formidable challenge, which requires the development of an active electrocatalyst to drive the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) for NH3 production at ambient conditions. Herein, we demonstrate the development of La-doped TiO2 nanorods as an efficient NRR electrocatalyst for ambient NH3 synthesis. The optimized La-TiO2 catalyst offers a large NH3 yield of 23.06 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a high Faradaic efficiency of 14.54% at.0.70 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M LiClO4, outperforming most La- and Ti-based catalysts reported before. Significantly, it also demonstrates high electrochemical stability and its activity decay is negligible after 48 h test. The mechanism is further revealed by density functional theory calculations. (C) 2021, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions is a highly attractive route for ammonia (NH3) synthesis. However, the NRR suffers from low NH3 yield and Faradaic efficiency (FE) due to the lack of effective electrocatalyst. Here Ag-doped Cu nanosheets grown on carbon paper (Ag-Cu-NS/CP) have been synthesized and utilized as efficient electrocatalysts for NRR. The doping of Ag leads to the formation of electron-deficient Cu atoms in Ag-Cu-NS/CP, which can suppress hydrogen evolution reaction and enhance N-2 adsorption in neutral media, leading to enhanced NRR activity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4 electrolyte, the Ag-Cu-NS/CP catalyst ex-hibits a high FE of 20.9% with a NH3 yield rate of 61.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at-0.4 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode. This study offers a simple but effective approach to design highly active and selective NRR electro-catalysts for NH3 synthesis.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction to NH3 is an emerging energy technology, attracting much attention due to its features of mild reaction conditions and being non-polluting. In this work, we demonstrate that a well-defined cobalt tetraphenylporphyrin (CoTPP) molecule as a model catalyst exhibits good electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction activity in 0.1 M HCl electrolyte with an ammonia yield of 15.18 +/- 0.78 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) calculated by the indophenol blue method and a Faraday efficiency (FE) of 11.43 +/- 0.74%. The catalyst also has satisfactory electrolytic stability and recycling test reusability. The activity displayed by the porphyrin molecular catalysts is attributed to the full exposure of the metal-N-4 sites. To trace the source of ammonia, an isotope labeling experiment (N-15(2) as the feed gas) is used to calculate the ammonia yield via(1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), which is close to that of the indophenol blue method. In addition, we replace the central metal to prepare CuTPP and MnTPP, and they also show electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) ability. This work proves the feasibility and versatility of using metalloporphyrin molecules as model electrocatalysts for NRR and offers a new strategy for the further development of molecular NRR catalysts.
Owing to its cost-effectiveness and adjustable eight-electron distribution in the 3d orbital, nickel oxide (NiO) is considered an effective electrocatalyst for an ambient electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). However, because of the low conductivity of the transition metal oxide electrocatalyst, its application in this field is limited. In this study, we found that the doping of NiO nanosheets with a small amount (3-10 nm) of Pt nanoparticles (Pt/NiO-NSs) leads to considerable improvements in the Faradaic efficiency (FE) and NH3 yield compared with those obtained using pure NiO, breaking the common perception that commercial Pt-based electrocatalysts demonstrate little potential for NRR due to their high hydrogen evolution tendency. In a 0.1 mol/L Na2SO4 solution at -0.2 V vs. RHE, a typical Pt/NiO-2 sample exhibits an optimum electrochemical NH3 yield of 20.59 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)cat. and an FE of 15.56%, which are approximately 5 and 3 times greater, respectively, than those of pure NiO nanosheets at the same applied potential. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis revealed that Pt in Pt/NiO-NSs exist as Pt-0, Pt2+, and Pt4+ and that high-valence Pt ions are more electropositive, thereby favoring chemisorption and the activation of N-2 molecules. Density function theory calculations showed that the d-band of Pt nanoparticles supported on NiO is significantly tuned compared to that of pure Pt, affording a more favorable electronic structure for NRR. The results of this study show that Pt can be an effective NRR electrochemical catalyst when loaded on an appropriate substrate. Most importantly, it provides a new synthetic avenue for the fabrication of highly active Pt-based NRR electrocatalysts. (C) 2022, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ammonia is a crucial biochemical raw material for nitrogen containing fertilizers and a hydrogen energy carrier obtained from renewable energy sources. Electrocatalytic ammonia synthesis is a renewable and less-energy intensive way as compared to the conventional Haber-Bosch process. The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is sluggish, primarily due to the deceleration by slow N-2 diffusion, giving rise to competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, we have engineered a catalyst to have hydrophobic and aerophilic nature via fluorinated copper phthalocyanine (F-CuPc) grafted with graphene to form a hybrid electrocatalyst, F-CuPc-G. The chemically functionalized fluorine moieties are present in the second coordination sphere, where it forms a three-phase interface. The hydrophobic layer of the catalyst fosters the diffusion of N-2 molecules and the aerophilic characteristic helps N-2 adsorption, which can effectively suppress the HER. The active metal center is present in the primary sphere available for the NRR with a viable amount of H+ to achieve a substantially high faradaic efficiency (FE) of 49.3% at -0.3 V vs. RHE. DFT calculations were performed to find out the rate determining step and to explore the full energy pathway. A DFT study indicates that the NRR process follows an alternating pathway, which was further supported by an in situ FTIR study by isolating the intermediates. This work provides insights into designing a catalyst with hydrophobic moieties in the second coordination sphere together with the aerophilic nature of the catalyst that helps to improve the overall FE of the NRR by eliminating the HER.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides a facile and sustainable strategy to produce ammonia (NH3) at ambient conditions. However, the low NH(3)yield and Faradaic efficiency (FE) are still the main challenges due to the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, a three-phase electrocatalyst through in situ fabrication of Au nanoparticles (NPs) located on hydrophobic carbon fiber paper (Au/o-CFP) is designed. The hydrophobic CFP surface facilitates efficient three-phase contact points (TPCPs) for N-2(gas), electrolyte (liquid), and Au NPs (solid). Thus, concentrated N(2)molecules can contact the electrocatalyst surface directly, inhibiting the HER since the lowered proton concentration and overall enhancing NRR. The three-phase Au/o-CFP electrocatalyst presents an excellent NRR performance with high NH(3)yield rate of 40.6 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)at -0.30 V and great FE of 31.3% at -0.10 V versus RHE (0.1mNa(2)SO(4)). The N-2-bubble contact angle result and cyclic voltammetry analysis confirm that the hydrophobic interface has a relatively strong interaction with N(2)bubble for enhanced NRR and weak electrocatalytic activity for HER. Significantly, the three-phase Au/o-CFP exhibits excellent stability with a negligible fluctuation of NH(3)yield and FE in seven-cycle test. This work provides a new strategy for improving NRR and simultaneously inhibiting HER.
The exploration of effective active catalysts for the synthesis of ammonia NH3 is of vital importance to the development of the industrial dinitrogen-fixation industry. Herein, a series of single transition metal atoms is screened anchoring on a monolayer graphdiyne (TM@GD, TM = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, W, Ir, Pt, and Au) toward electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction nitrogen reductive reaction (NRR) by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Several TM@GD, including Ti@GD, V@GD, Nb@GD, Ru@GD, and W@GD, are computed to experience relatively lower free energy uphill for NRR than Ru(0001) surface. Specifically, the Nb@GD is demonstrated to be the most excellent for NRR with a limited potential of only 0.27 V, and also a high selectivity of 49.95% in spite of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) competition simply estimated by Boltzmann distribution. Distal pathway is identified here without the formation of N2N4 species, ensuring a highly oriented product of NH3. Studies in this work would facilitate further experimental research in this field with a new idea and guidance to find out the active catalysts of high efficiency for NH3 synthesis at room temperature.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is a sustainable alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process due to its eco-friendly nature and capability of utilizing renewable energy. However, its low Faradic efficiency (FE), caused by the excessive adsorption and reduction of protons, has been regarded as the main challenge, which leads to low ammonia yield as well. Herein, a carbon-supported iron electrocatalyst is reported, which is fabricated by low-temperature (300 degrees C) potassium vapor reduction of FeF3-intercalated graphite fluoride, for efficient electrochemical nitrogen reduction. The strategy enables the unique formation of exposed Fe nanoparticles uniformly anchored on graphene and in situ doped with fluorine heteroatoms. These specific features can alter the electronic configuration of the Fe nanoparticles, leading to strong surface polarization that boosts nitrogen absorption capability for eNRR, resulting in high FE (41.6%) and ammonia yield rate (53.3 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)) simultaneously. First-principle calculation attributes this enhanced eNRR capability to more empty orbitals carried by the Fe atoms through the electron transfer with F dopant and substrate. As a versatile strategy for synthesizing various ultrafine and highly dispersed metal nanoparticles on the carbon support, this work might shed light on rational designing essential electrocatalysts with effective electronic structure manipulation.
A highly attractive, but still a key challenge, is the development of earth-abundant electrocatalysts for efficient NH3 electrosynthesis via the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this communication, we report the development of a Mo2N nanorod as a highly efficient and selective NRR electrocatalyst for artificial N-2 fixation in acidic electrolytes under ambient conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, this catalyst achieved a high Faradaic efficiency of 4.5% with a NH3 yield of 78.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.3 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode, thus outperforming most reported NRR electrocatalysts under ambient conditions and some under harsh conditions. Density functional theory calculations revealed that the free energy barrier of the potential determining step of NRR on MoO2 decreases dramatically after nitrogenization.
Industrial NH3 synthesis mainly relies on the carbon-emitting Haber-Bosch process operating under severe conditions. Electrocatalytic N-2 to NH3 fixation at ambient conditions is an attractive approach to reduce energy consumption and avoid direct carbon emission. In this communication, it is reported that the S-doped carbon nanosphere (S-CNS) acts as an efficient and stable nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalyst for ambient N-2 to NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, the S-CNS achieves a large NH3 yield of 19.07 mu g h(-1)mg(cat)(-1) and a high Faradic efficiency of 7.47% at -0.7 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, much higher than those of undoped CNS (3.70 mu g h(-1)mg(cat,)(-1) 1.45%). Notably, this catalyst also demonstrates high electrochemical and structure stability.
Electrochemical N-2 fixation has gained much attention as an environmentally friendly and sustainable process for NH3 production at ambient conditions. Its efficiency depends greatly on identifying highly active electrocatalysts with good stability. In this work, we propose the use of VO2 hollow microspheres as a robust non-precious metal catalyst for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). The catalyst operates efficiently and stably at neutral pH to high Faradaic efficiency (3.97%) and NH, yield (14.85 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) under an applied potential of 0.7 V (vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode). Note that this catalyst also presents a high selectivity for NH, synthesis without N2H4 generation. Density functional theory reveals that the energetically favorable pathway for NRR is *N ->*NNH ->*NHNH ->*NHNH ->*NH2NH2 ->*NH2+NH3 ->*NH3+NH3 -> 2NH(3), where the first hydrogenation step to form NNH is the potential-determining step.
The nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a key step in electrochemical nitrogen fixation and exploring high-performance electrocatalysts is of paramount significance for achieving the desired NRR efficiency. Herein, we demonstrate that bimetallic MnMoO(4)can be a highly active and durable NRR catalyst. The developed MnMoO(4)nanorods-reduced graphene oxide presented a favorable combination of both high NH(3)yield (60.3 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)) and high faradaic efficiency (14.7%), surpassing nearly all of the previously reported Mn and Mo-based NRR catalysts. Theoretical calculations revealed that the surface-terminated Mn and Mo atoms functioned as dual-active-centers to synergistically boost the NRR and suppress the adverse hydrogen evolution.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has much prospect for substituting the energy-consuming Haber-Bosch process. Nevertheless, its sluggish reaction kinetics and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction always result in limited ammonia yield and low faradaic efficiency (FE). In this work, an Fe-decorated porphyrinic metal-organic framework (MOF) is employed as a precursor to construct single-atom Fe implanted nitrogen-doped carbon catalysts (Fe-1-N-C) through a mixed ligand strategy. Benefiting from the highly dispersed single-atom Fe sites, hierarchically porous structure and good conductivity, Fe-1-N-C shows a FE of 4.51% and an ammonia yield rate of 1.56 x 10(-11) mol cm(-2) s(-1) at -0.05 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, superior to those of Co-1-N-C and Ni-1-N-C. Theoretical calculations reveal that Fe-1-N-C shows the lowest energy barrier of the rate-determining step during the NRR process, consistent with its highest activity obtained in experiments. This work reveals the unique potential of single-atom catalysts for the electrochemical NRR and provides in-depth insights into the catalytic mechanism of the NRR.
Electrochemical conversion of N2 into ammonia presents a sustainable pathway to produce hydrogen storage carrier but yet requires further advancement in electrocatalyst design and electrolyzer integration. This technology suffers from low selectivity and yield owing to the extremely strong NEN bond and the exceptionally low solubility of N2 in aqueous systems. A high NH3 synthesis performance is restricted by the high activation energy of NEN bond and the supply insufficiency of N2 to active sites. This paper describes the introduction of electron -rich Bi0 sites into Ag catalysts with a high-pressure electrolyzer that enables a dramatically enhanced Faradaic efficiency of 44.0% and yield of 28.43 lig cm-2 h-1 at 4.0 MPa. Combined with density functional theory results, in situ attenuated total reflectance surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy demonstrates that N2 reduction reaction follows an associative mechanism, in which a high coverage of N-N bond and -NH2 intermediates suggest electron -rich Bi0 boosts sound activation of N2 molecules and low hydrogenation barrier. The proposed strategy of engineering electrochemical catalysts and devices provides powerful guidelines for achieving industrial -level green ammonia production.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in ambient condition provides a sustainable avenue for large-scale NH3 production. However, the development of effective and durable NRR catalysts to promote NH3 syn-thesis rate and Faraday efficiency (FE) remains a challenge due to the inertness of the N equivalent to N bond. Herein, porous NiBi catalysts which provides abunant active sites were prepared by chemical dealloying of the precursor. Combining theoretical calculations and experimental verification, it is demonstrated that the synergistic effect of Ni and NiBi facilitates the adsorption of N2, inhibits the competition reaction, and reduces the free energy of intermediates (*NNH). Porous Ni91.5Bi8.5 exhibits high catalytic activity for NH3 formation with a yield of 18.35 mu g h-1 mg-1 and a FE of 51.12% at-0.3 V vs. RHE, outperforming most reported NRR electrocatalysts under ambient conditions. This strategy is an effective and universal technique for synthesizing catalysts that shows great potential in energy conversion applications.
We studied the electrochemical synthesis of NH3 on Fe-CuS/C catalysts in an alkaline aqueous solution under ambient conditions. The metal chalcogenide catalyst is active in the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) for approximately 45 min with an NH3 production yield of 16 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) at -0.4 V-RHE, while it decomposes to CuO. The rapid degradation of the catalyst hinders the precise investigation of the NH3 production activity in longer time measurements. Herein, the electrochemical NH3 production rate is enhanced with increased overpotentials when the degradation effect is mitigated in the measurement, which was difficult to observe in the NRR reports. In the Tafel analysis, the exchange current density, heterogeneous rate constant, and transfer coefficient of the Fe-CuS/C catalyst on the NRR were estimated. When the electrode degradation is mitigated, one of the best NH3 production activities among the reported metal sulfide electrochemical NRR catalysts is obtained, which is 42 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) at -0.6 V-RHE.
Electrochemical fixation of N-2 to ammonia is a promising strategy to store renewable energy and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. However, it usually suffers from extremely low ammonia yield and Faradaic efficiency because of the lack of efficient electrocatalysts and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Herein, we report that the semiconducting bismuth can be a promising catalyst for ambient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). A two-dimensional mosaic bismuth nanosheet (Bi NS) was fabricated via an in situ electrochemical reduction process and exhibited favorable average ammonia yield and Faradaic efficiency as high as 2.54 +/- 0.16 mu g(NH3) cm(-2) h(-1) (similar to 13.23 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1)) and 10.46 +/- 1.45% at -0.8 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. The high NRR electrocatalytic activity of the Bi NS could be attributed to the sufficient exposure of edge sites coupled with effective p-orbital electron delocalization in the mosaic bismuth nanosheets. In addition, the semiconducting feature, which limits surface electron accessibility, could effectively enhance the Faradaic efficiency. This work highlights the potential importance of less reactive main group elements with tunable p-electron density, semiconducting property, and ingenious nanostructure for further exploration of N-2 reduction reaction electrocatalysts.
NH3 synthesis via the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions has been regarded as a sustainable strategy for fertilizer production and hydrogen fuel storage and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. The faradaic efficiency (FE) and reaction rate of the NRR, however, are still low for current electrocatalysts. Herein, we develop a metal-free B, N co-doped porous carbon nanofiber (B/N-CNF) that exhibits superior electrocatalytic performance for the NRR in an alkaline electrolyte with the highest FE of 13.2% at -0.5 V and a NH3 yield rate of 32.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.7 V. Such a high NRR activity of the B/N-CNF is superior to that of N- or B-doped carbon materials in the literature. The experimental results reveal that the B-N bonds play a critical role in the NRR process, in which N atoms promote the electron conductivity and B atoms efficiently enhance the N-2 adsorption and charge transfer.
Efficient nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalysis relies on the active sites of the electrocatalyst being capable of adsorption of hydrogen ions and nitrogen molecules. As has been well reported, nitrogen-doped carbons are efficient electrocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) due to their ability to adsorb hydrogen ions, to combine them and to release H2. The introduction of other heteroatoms to disturb the successive HER active sites in nitrogen-doped carbon, and to offer binding sites for N2, is beneficial for efficiently catalyzing the NRR. Here, we rationally synthesize boron, nitrogen and fluorine ternary-doped carbon (BNFC) from the carbonization of cigarette butts saturated with the ionic liquid 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate (C8H15N2BF4). Nitrogen atoms in BNFC are capable of adsorption of hydrogen ions, and the adjacent B or F heteroatoms offer Lewis acid sites for chemisorption of N2; in the case of this synergistic catalysis, a boosted electrocatalytic activity toward the NRR with an NH3 yield rate of 41 mu gNH3 h-1 mgcat.-1 and a faradaic efficiency as high as 14% at -0.4 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) are recorded for BNFC in 0.05 M H2SO4 electrolyte. Moreover, a comparably high NH3 yield rate (39 mu gNH3 h-1 mgcat.-1) and faradaic efficiency (16%) at -0.4 V vs. RHE are also recorded in 0.1 M NaOH electrolyte due to the capability of water dissociation and adsorption of generated hydrogen ions by the nitrogen atoms in BNFC. In addition, due to the modulated electronic structure of the carbon atoms by means of heteroatom doping, BNFC also exhibits a Pt-like oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity with a half-wave potential of 836 mV vs. RHE and superior oxygen evolution reaction (OER) demanding a low overpotential of 313 mV to achieve 10 mA cm-2. As a consequence, the assembled rechargeable zinc-air batteries (ZABs) perform at a 1.8-fold higher power density than commercial Pt/C-IrO2 and sustain this for 2300 cycles with minimal degradation in performance. The battery performance of all-solid-sate ZABs also outperforms that of commercial Pt/C-IrO2 systems and can power the OER-NRR coupled device to electrochemically generate NH3.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions is an attractive approach to synthesizing NH3 , but remains a significant challenge due to insufficient NH3 yields and low Faraday efficiency (FE). Among studied NRR catalyst formulations, molecular catalysts with well-defined FeN4 configuration structures allow the establishment of a precise structural model for elucidating the complex multiple proton and electron transfer NRR processes competing with the undesirable hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Inspired by biological nitrogenase, Fe sites can activate the N-2 due to their strong interactions with N-2. The unoccupied d orbital of Fe endows it the ideal electron acceptor and donor, which offers an attractive chemical property to facilitate NRR activity. Herein, we explore a molecular iron catalyst, i.e. , tetraphenylporphyrin iron chloride (FeTPPCl) for the NRR. It exhibits promising NRR activity with the highest NH3 yield (18.28 +/- 1.6 mu g h(-1) mg(1)cat.) and FE (16.76 +/- 0.9 %) at-0.3 V vs. RHE in neutral electrolytes. Importantly, N-15 isotope labeling experiments confirm that the synthesized NH3 originates from the direct reduction of N-2 in which H-1 NMR spectroscopy and colorimetric methods were performed to quantify NH3 production. Also, operando electrochemical Raman spectroscopy studies confirm that the Fe-Cl bond breakage in the FeTPPCl catalyst is a prerequisite for initiating the NRR. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further reveal that the active species is Fe porphyrin complex [Fe (TPP)](2) and the rate-determining step is the first hydrogenation of N-2 via the alternating mechanism on the [Fe0](2) sites. This work provides a new concept to use structurally defined molecular single iron catalysts to elucidate NRR mechanisms and design optimal active sites with enhanced reaction activity and selectivity for NH3 production under ambient conditions.
Developing high-efficiency electrocatalysts for artificial nitrogen fixation at room temperature and atmospheric pressure is fundamentally important but challenging. Herein, MoFe-PC (PC, phosphorus-doped carbon) microspheres, synthesized by facile one-step pyrolysis-phosphating of bimetallic metal-organic framework (MOF) precursors, were used as a cost-efficient catalyst for the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). With the advantageous characteristics of the multicomponent active sites and porous structure inherited from the MOF precursor, the MoFe-PC catalyst achieves a peak NH3 yield rate of 34.23 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) with a high faradaic efficiency (FE) of 16.83% at -0.5 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 M HCl under ambient conditions, exceeding those of most of the previously reported noble metal- or non-noble metal-based NRR electrocatalysts under the same conditions. The changes of the surface composition and structure of the catalyst before and after NRR testing are monitored by ex situ XPS and XANES. The Mo and Fe oxides and PC in the hybrids are both active in the NRR, synergistically enhancing the NRR performance.
Ammonia occupies a significant standing in the global economy. As a promising alternative to the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical nitrogen reduction could achieve sustainable ammonia synthesis. However, the attractive alternative suffers from the bottleneck of insufficient activity and low electron selectivity. Here, we report an efficient electrocatalyst using phosphotungstic acid as platforms to anchor bismuth species on the 4-fold hollow site and anchor lithium species on the 3-fold hollow site, which reaches high ammonia yield rates of 61 +/- 1 mu g h(-1) mg(cat).(-1) and Faradaic efficiencies of 85% +/- 2% at -0.1 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Experiments and theoretical calculations reveal that the Bi delta+ species can promote the activation and hydrogenation of nitrogen at adjacent unsaturated tungsten active sites, and the incorporated lithium species reduce the hydrogen reduction rate in undesired water splitting. This synergistic functionalization of bismuth and lithium species contributes to the high-efficient catalyst.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction to produce ammonia beyond overall two-electrode electrolysis with less energy input is necessary but challenging. Herein, hollow cobalt phosphate microspheres (CoPi/HSNPC) derived from corresponding cobalt phosphonates are employed as an efficient electrocatalyst toward both nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) under alkaline conditions. Benefiting from the sufficient active sites and the enhanced proton-conducting pathways, the CoPi/HSNPC exhibits a high NH3 yield rate of 16.48 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) with a faradaic efficiency of 4.46% at -0.2 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode, associated with excellent stability for cycling operation. The Co2+ sites of cobalt phosphate microspheres are revealed as the active component for the NRR through the associative pathway, and the phosphate groups are also beneficial for the enhanced NRR activity. The CoPi/HSNPC also exhibits extraordinary OER activity with an overpotential of 341 mV to deliver 10 mA cm(-2) of anodic current density and a negligible current decay during 30 h. When employed as the cathode catalyst of a rechargeable Zn-N-2 battery, a large NH3 yield rate of 11.62 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and faradaic efficiency of 24.42% with decreased charge-discharge potential gaps as well as an impressive power output including a peak power density of 0.31 mW cm(-2) and an energy density of 138.6 mW h g(zn)(-1) are achieved, providing an attractive perspective for practical applications. Moreover, the assembled Zn-N-2 battery can maintain robust cycling operation with a stable NH3 yield rate driven by the sustainable electricity input from solar energy.
Ammonia (NH3) offers extensive applications in industrial production; moreover, it is a potential carrier for hydrogen energy and an eco-friendly fuel. Electrocatalytic synthesis of NH3 has drawn increasing research attention, wherein an excellent electrocatalyst plays a vital role. Iron (Fe) oxide nanomaterials with their high activity and cost effectiveness of its raw material Fe, have received significant attention in electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) to synthesize NH3. This study reports a rapid and cost-effective electrochemical method for synthesizing magnetic Fe3O4 nanoparticles, achieving gram-level production under ambient conditions. The synthesized magnetic Fe3O4 nanoparticles as electrocatalyst for NRR, achieved excellent faradaic efficiency of 16.9% and an optimal NH3 yield of 12.09 mg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). at-0.15 V (versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) in 0.1 M Na2SO4. Besides, density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the N N bond was fully activated, and the NRR proceeds mainly along the alternating hydrogenation pathway. (C) 2021 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction is a tremendous potential technology to convert N2 into highly value-added NH3. However, it still faces great challenges due to the difficult activation of nitrogen at room temperature. Herein, Cu@NC nanocubes were synthesized for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction via the calcination of cuprous oxide@PDA. The produced N-doped carbon from the carbon-ization of the PDA shell not only effectively protects the nanocube structure of the catalyst and enhances N2 adsorption ability but also provides the reduced intermediate to reduce cuprous oxide to Cu0. Cu0 as an effective active site effectively activates N2 and enhances the ammonia synthesis ability. Therefore, Cu@NC nanocubes show an outstanding electrochemical activity with an ammonia yield rate of 35.54 mg/ h/mg cat and high Faradaic efficiency of 21.12%. This work provides a way to enhance the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction performance of Cu-based materials by introducing Cu0.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ammonia (NH3) is an essential resource in human production and living activities, and its demand has been rising in recent years. The catalytic synthesis of NH3 from N-2 under mild conditions, inspired by biological nitrogen fixation, has piqued the interest of researchers. In this paper, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to investigate the catalytic activity, mechanism, and selectivity of the TM embedded nitrogen-doped phosphorene as high-performance nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) electrocatalysts in depth. The results show that Nb- and Mo-doped catalysts present excellent catalytic performance, with low limiting potentials of -0.41 and -0.18 V, respectively. The Mo-N-3-BP catalyst, for example, not only has an extremely low overpotential (-0.02 V), but also presents superior selectivity to effectively inhibit the HER competition reaction. A deeper look into the catalytic mechanism reveals a volcano relationship between the d-band center and the catalytic activity (Mo and Nb are located near the peak of the volcano-type curve). The d-band center and charge of the metal center can be regarded as effective descriptors for NRR activity on TM embedded nitrogen-doped phosphorene electrocatalysts, which hope to serve as a guiding principle for the design of high performance NRR single-atom catalyst in the future.
The electrochemical reduction of N-2 to NH3 is emerging as a promising alternative for sustainable and distributed production of NH3. However, the development has been impeded by difficulties in N-2 adsorption, protonation of *NN, and inhibition of competing hydrogen evolution. To address the issues, we design a catalyst with diatomic Pd-Cu sites on N-doped carbon by modulation of single-atom Pd sites with Cu. The introduction of Cu not only shifts the partial density of states of Pd toward the Fermi level but also promotes the d-2 pi* coupling between Pd and adsorbed N-2, leading to enhanced chemisorption and activated protonation of N-2, and suppressed hydrogen evolution. As a result, the catalyst achieves a high Faradaic efficiency of 24.8 +/- 0.8 % and a desirable NH3 yield rate of 69.2 +/- 2.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), far outperforming the individual single-atom Pd catalyst. This work paves a pathway of engineering single-atom-based electrocatalysts for enhanced ammonia electrosynthesis.
The sluggish breakage of the N-N triple bond, as well as the existence of a competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), restricts the nitrogen reduction reaction process. Modification of the catalyst surface to boost N-2 adsorption and activation is essential for nitrogen fixation. Herein, we introduced surface oxygen vacancies in bimetal oxide NiMnO3 by pyrolysis at 450 degrees C (450-NiMnO3) to achieve remarkable NRR activity. The NiMnO3 3D nanosphere with a rough surface could increase catalytically active metal sites and introduce oxygen vacancies that are able to enhance N-2 adsorption and further improve the reaction rate. Benefiting from the introduced oxygen vacancies in NiMnO3, 450-NiMnO3 showed excellent performance for nitrogen reduction to ammonia with a high NH3 yield of 31.44 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) (at -0.3 V vs. RHE) and a splendid FE of 14.5% (at -0.1 V vs. RHE) in 0.1 M KOH. 450-NiMnO3 also shows high long-term electrochemical stability with excellent selectivity for NH3 formation. N-15 isotope labeling experiments further verify that the source of produced ammonia is derived from 450-NiMnO3. The present study opens new avenues for the rational construction of efficient electrocatalysts for the synthesis of ammonia from nitrogen.
The Haber-Bosch process enables the industrial production of NH3 from N-2 and H-2, but it has problems with high energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Electrochemical reduction offers an environmentally-benign and sustainable alternative for NH3 synthesis. In this communication, we describe a TiO2 nanoparticles-reduced graphene oxide hybrid (TiO2-rGO) which behaves as an efficient non-noble-metal N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) electrocatalyst for N-2-to-NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. When tested in 0.1 M Na2SO4, the TiO2-rGO achieves a high faradaic efficiency of 3.3% and a large NH3 yield of 15.13 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.90 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, this catalyst also shows high electrochemical stability during electrolysis and recycling tests.
Ammonia production via the electrochemical N2 reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions is highly desired as an alternative to the Haber-Bosch process, but remains a great challenge due to the low efficiency and selectivity caused by the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein we investigate the effect of availabilities of reactants (protons, electrons and N2) on NRR using a FeOx-coated carbon fiber paper cathode in various electrochemical configurations. NRR is found viable only under the conditions of low proton-and high N2 availabilities, which are achieved using 0.12 vol% water in LiClO4- ethyl acetate electrolyte and gaseous N2 supplied to the membrane-electrode assembly cathode. This results in an NRR rate of 29 +/- 19 pmolNH3 s(-1) cm(-2) at a Faradaic efficiency of 70 +/- 24% at the applied potential of-0.1 V vs. NHE. Other conditions (high proton-, or low N2-availability, or both) yield a lower or negligible amount of ammonia due to the competing HER. Our work shows that promoting NRR by suppressing the HER requires optimization of the operational variables, which serves as a complementary strategy to the development of NRR catalysts. (c) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/ licenses/by/4.0/). Superscript/Subscript Available
Electrochemical N-2 reduction is developing as an appealing carbon-neutral strategy for NH3 artificial synthesis but seriously influenced by requiring high-efficiency electmcatalysts for the N-2 activation at ambient conditions. Here, we reported that defective-rich ZnS nanoparticles supported on reduced graphene oxide (DR ZnS-rGO) acts as a high-efficiency electmcatalyst for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M HCl, such DR ZnS-rGO presents a large NH3 yield of 51.2 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). (-0.15 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) and a high faradic efficiency of 28.2 % (-0.10 V vs. RHE), as well as high electrochemical and structure stability. Isotopic labelling samples experiments reveal that the synthetic NH3 directly arise from the supplied N-2. Density functional theory calculations demonstrated that the engineering S vacancies in DR ZnS-rGO not only provide reaction sites for N-2-to-NH3 conversion but activate of N-2 molecules.
Electrocatalytic ammonia (NH3) synthesis under ambient conditions via the Nitrogen Reduction Reaction (NRR) presents a possible alternative to the century-old Haber-Bosch process. For electrochemical NRR, developing a high-performance electrocatalyst is a necessity. Herein, & alpha;-CuPc is an electrocatalyst that demonstrated NRR activity in 0.1 N HCl electrolyte solution with NH3 yield of 11.56 & mu;g h-1 mg (-0.4 V vs RHE) and 6.29% (-0.3 V vs RHE) Faradaic efficiency at STP. Significantly, the electrocatalyst exhibits excellent stability (up to 10 h) and is recyclable for five times throughout the electrolysis process. The validity of nitrogen sources in NH3 generation is established through isotopic labelling studies and various control experiments. This work demonstrates the development of & alpha;-CuPc nanostructure for NH3 production via N2 fixation.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is considered a sustainable approach that endows NH3 production from N-2 and H2O under ambient conditions. Due to the sluggish adsorption/activation of N-2 and the strong competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction, advanced NRR electrocatalysts with both high activity and selectivity are required. Herein, we demonstrate a local modulation strategy that simultaneously promotes NRR selectivity and activity on molybdenum-based single atom catalysts (SACs) by sulfur-induced electronic redistribution, delivering a NH3 yield rate of 46.6 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat)(-1) and a Faradaic efficiency of 28.9% at a potential of - 0.2 V vs. RHE in 0.1 M HCl under ambient conditions. This study provides a promising strategy for synergizing the selectivity and activity of electrocatalysts toward multistep NRR. Moreover, such an atomic-level engineering strategy should be applicable to other SACs in general and may have a major impact on their use in electrocatalytic applications.
As the cheapest and one of the most abundant transition metals, Fe is not only involved in nitrogenases for biological N-2 fixation but is also extensively utilized in the Haber-Bosch process for industrial-scale NH3 synthesis. However, the application of Fe-based electrocatalysts for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion still requires exploration of effective strategies to boost the catalytic performances for simultaneously achieving a large NH3 yield and a high Faradaic efficiency (FE). Here, we report that the ambient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction activity of a -FeOOH nanorod can be greatly improved by fluorine doping. When tested at -0.60 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.5 M LiClO4, such a -FeO(OH,F) nanorod obtains an optimal NH3 yield (42.38 g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and FE (9.02%), much higher than those of pristine -FeOOH (10.01 g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), 2.16%). Density functional theory calculations reveal that the enhancement in activity originates from the lower reaction energy barrier (0.24 eV) of the nanorod than that of -FeOOH (0.59 eV).
To date, the application of electrochemical nitrogen fixation into ammonia is severely hindered by the deficiency of high-performance electrocatalysts. In this paper, a facile approach is proposed for the preparation of MXene/Mn3O4 composite catalyst, where Mn3O4 nanoparticles are anchored tightly on the MXene nanosheets through van der Waals interactions. The obtained composite catalyst exhibiting powerful synergetic effect is able to provide abundant active sites for nitrogen reduction reaction. The introduction of MXene nanosheets dramatically improves the N-2 adsorption and charge transfer. When operated in 0.1M Na2SO4 aqueous media, MXene/Mn3O4 achieves a proper Faradaic efficiency of 5.51% and superior NH3 yield rate of 25.95 mu g h(-1) mgcat.(-1) at -0.5 V under ambient conditions, outperforming either of individual components. Notably, this composite catalyst delivers superb stability, durability and selectivity as well.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction as an alternative approach to the energy-intensive and large CO2-producing Haber-Bosch process for NH3 synthesis under mild conditions has attracted extensive attention. Current research efforts on N-2 reduction have mainly focused on metal-based catalysts, but metal-free alternatives can avoid the issue of metal ion release. In this work, oxygen-doped hollow carbon microtubes (O-KFCNTs) derived from natural kapok fibers are reported as a metal-free NRR electrocatalyst for N2-to-NH3 conversion with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M HCl, the O-KFCNTs achieve a high faradaic efficiency of 9.1% at -0.80 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a NH3 yield rate of 25.12 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.85 V vs. RHE under ambient conditions. Notably, this catalyst also demonstrates high stability.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reactions (NRR) and the N-2 oxidation reaction (NOR), using H2O and N-2, are a sustainable approach to N-2 fixation. To date, owing to the chemical inertness of nitrogen, emerging electrocatalysts for the electrochemical NRR and NOR at room temperature and atmospheric pressure remain largely underexplored. Herein, a new-type Fe-SnO2 was designed as a Janus electrocatalyst for achieving highly efficient NRR and NOR catalysis. A high NH3 yield of 82.7 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a Faraday efficiency (FE) of 20.4 % were obtained for NRR. This catalyst can also serve as an excellent NOR electrocatalyst with a NO3- yields of 42.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a FE of 0.84 %. By means of experiments and DFT calculations, it is revealed that the oxygen vacancy-anchored single-atom Fe can effectively adsorb and activate chemical inert N-2 molecules, lowering the energy barrier for the vital breakage of N equivalent to N and resulting in the enhanced N-2 fixation performance.
We report the synthesis and characterization of metal oxide/polyaniline/N-doped-multi-walled carbon nanotube (N-MWCNT) hybrid composite electrocatalysts (i.e., Fe3O4/PANI/N-MWCNT and RuO2/PANI/N-MWCNT) and their subsequent testing in electrocatalytic synthesis of ammonia from water and nitrogen at low temperatures (<= 60 degrees C) and atmospheric pressure. For the purpose of this test, Nafion-based membrane electrode assemblies (MEA) with a Pt/C anode and different hybrid composite material (HCM) cathodes were fabricated. The maximum obtained rate of ammonia synthesis was 4.1 x 10(-12) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at 60 degrees C at an applied voltage of 2.0 V, and the maximum faradaic efficiency of 0.49% was achieved at 25 degrees C and 1.2 V when RuO2/PANI/N-MWCNT was employed as the cathode. This HCM approach could therefore provide a novel insight into the design of different electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction with a high faradic efficiency.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, the sluggish kinetics and competitive hydrogen evolution reaction result in poor NH3 yield and low Faradaic efficiency (FE). Herein, single bismuth atoms incorporated hollow titanium nitride nanorods encapsulated in nitrogen-doped carbon layer (NC) supported on carbon cloth (NC/Bi SAs/TiN/CC) is constructed for electrocatalytic NRR. Impressively, as an integrated electrode, it exhibits a superior ammonia yield rate of 76.15 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1) (9859 mu g mu mol(Bi)(-1) h(-1)) at -0.8 V versus RHE and a high FE of 24.60% at -0.5 V versus RHE in 0.1 m Na2SO4 solution, which can retain stable performance in 10 h continuous operation, surpassing the overwhelming majority of reported Bi-based NRR catalysts. Coupling various characterizations with theory calculations, it is disclosed that the unique monolithic core-shell configuration with porous structure endows abundant accessible active sites, outstanding charge-transfer property, and good stability, while the cooperation effect of Bi SAs and TiN can simultaneously promote the hydrogenation of N-2 into NH3* on the TiN surface and the desorption of NH3* to release NH3 on the Bi SA sites. These features result in the significant promotion of NRR performance.
Despite the intense research efforts directed to electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR), the NH3 yield and selectivity are still not up to the standard of practical application. Here, high-entropy perovskite oxides with composition Ba-x(FeCoNiZrY)(0.2)O3-delta (B-x(FCNZY)(0.2) (x = 0.9, 1) are reported as eNRR catalysts. The eNRR activity of high-entropy perovskite oxide is enhanced by changing the nonstoichiometric metal elements at the A-site, thus generating additional oxygen vacancies. The NH3 yield and Faraday efficiency for B-0.9(FCNZY)(0.2) are 1.51 and 1.95 times higher than those for B(FCNZY)(0.2), respectively. The d-band center theory is used to theoretically predict the catalytically active center at the B-site, and as a result, nickel was identified as the catalytic site. The free energy values of the intermediate states in the optimal distal pathway show that the third protonation step (*NNH2 -> *NNH3) is the rate-determining step and that the increase in oxygen vacancies in the high-entropy perovskite contributes to nitrogen adsorption and reduction. This work provides a framework for applying high-entropy structures with active site diversity for electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation.
Electrocatalytic ammonia (NH3) synthesis through the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions presents a promising alternative to the famous century-old Haber-Bosch process. Designing and developing a high-performance electrocatalyst is a compelling necessity for electrochemical NRR. Specific transition metal based nanostructured catalysts are potential candidates for this purpose owing to their attributes such as higher actives sites, specificity as well as selectivity and electron transfer, etc. However, due to the lack of a well-organized morphology, lower activity, selectivity, and stability of the electrocatalysts make them ineffective at producing a high NH3 yield rate and Faradaic efficiency (FE) for further development. In this work, stable beta-cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc) nanotubes (NTs) have been synthesized by a scalable solvothermal method for electrochemical NRR. The chemically synthesized CoPc NTs show excellent electrochemical NRR due to high specific area, greater number of exposed active sites, and specific selectivity of the catalyst. As a result, CoPc NTs produced a higher NH3 yield of 107.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and FE of 27.7% in 0.1 M HCl at -0.3 V vs RHE. The density functional theory calculations confirm that the Co center in CoPc is the main active site responsible for electrochemical NRR. This work demonstrates the development of hollow nanostructured electrocatalysts in large scale for N-2 fixation to NH3.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is widely regarded as a green and environmentally sustainable strategy with the promise for industrial-scale ammonia synthesis under ambient conditions. To promote its industrialization, we synthesized an economical, efficient and stable Ni-decorated Nb2C (Ni@Nb2C) MXene-based catalyst. The Ni@Nb2C MXene displays excellent electrocatalytic NRR performance with NH3 yield of 26.16 mu g cm(-2) h(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 7.3%. Remarkably, the general methodology reported here paves the way to effectively synthesize various other metals-decorated MXenes, which not only enrich the MXene-based catalysts but also significantly promote their practical utilization in a wide range of environment- and energy-related fields. It is of great significance for the harmonious development of humans and nature.
Ammonia synthesis by electrochemical nitrogen reduction technique is an attractive alternative to traditional Haber-Bosch process. Currently, development of an efficient and effective electrocatalyst is one of the remaining key challenges. In this work, density functional theory (DFT) computations were systematically employed on double transition metal atoms (Fe, Co, Ni, Cu and Mo) anchored Graphdiyne (GDY) for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). The Co-Ni heteronuclear complex and Mo-Mo homonuclear complex showed the highest NRR activity while demonstrating synergistic effect of double atomic catalytic sites towards the promising NRR activity. (C) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of The editorial office of Journal of Materials Science & Technology.
A nanocomposite of PC/Sb/SbPO4 (PC, phosphorus-doped carbon) exhibits a high activity and an excellent selectivity for efficient electrocatalytic conversion of N-2 to NH3 in both acidic and neutral electrolytes under ambient conditions. At a low reductive potential of -0.15 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), the PC/Sb/SbPO4 catalyst achieves a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 31 % for ammonia production in 0.1 m HCl under mild conditions. In particular, a remarkably high FE value of 34 % is achieved at a lower reductive potential of -0.1 V (vs. RHE) in a 0.1 m Na2SO4 solution, which is better than most reported electrocatalysts towards the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in neutral electrolyte under mild conditions. The change in surface species and electrocatalytic performance before and after N-2 reduction is explored by an ex situ method. PC and SbPO4 are both considered as the active species that enhanced the performance of NRR.
Ammonia (NH3) as a significant industrial material as well as a clean energy carrier has become the center of attention. Using electrocatalysis to convert N-2 to NH3 at ambient conditions is an attractive method among other sustainable methods. However, achieving high yields of NH3 and high Faraday efficiency (FE) at a low overpotential is still a big challenge in electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reactions (NRRs). In this study, strongly chemically coupled NiCoS/C nanocages were first used for the conversion of N-2 to NH3 in the electrocatalytic NRR. Benefiting from the unique structure and strong chemical coupling between C and NiCoS, the NiCoS/C nanocages exhibit superior NRR performance and selectivity in 0.1 M Li2SO4. It can achieve a high ammonia production rate of 26.0 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) (2.60 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) and a high FE of 12.9% at 0 V (vs. RHE). Notably, with the increasing potential, the ammonia production rate could reach the highest value of about 58.5 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) (5.85 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)). The density functional theory reveals that the strong chemical coupling effect between NiCoS and C is of great importance in lowering the NRR overpotential and enhancing the electrochemical NRR activity and selectivity. This work provides a new avenue for designing the strongly chemically coupled NRR electrocatalysts to realize high NRR performance at a low overpotential.
As one of the possible alternatives to the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical ammonia synthesis has been attracting considerable interest in recent years. However, most electrocatalysts are confronted with the predicament of a low yield rate for ammonia production. In this study, we report the chlorine-doped reduced graphene oxide that can efficiently electroreduce nitrogen to ammonia. At an applied potential of -0.3 V (vs RHE), the chlorine-doped reduced graphene oxide attains a high NH3 yield of 70.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) (2.84 mu g h(-1) cm(-2)) with a Faraday efficiency (FE) of 5.97%, which shows a considerable ammonia yield in terms of the metal-free carbonaceous material electrocatalysts. Experimental results indicate that the chlorine doping can be propitious to remarkably strengthen the nitrogen adsorption in the defect structure. Density functional theory calculations verify this result and further reveal that the adsorbed nitrogen is reduced through the associative distal pathway. These results come down to the appropriate electronegativity of chlorine, which can induce the electron redistribution of the adjacent carbon atoms, favoring the electroreduction of N-2. Our work expands a new member for the application of nonmetallic carbonaceous materials in nitrogen electroreduction.
Ammonia is closely associated with the food supply and production of chemicals in modern society. Motived by the global shift toward green production, the synthesis of ammonia via the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has been proposed as an alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. In this case, the lithium-mediated process (LiNR) is considered to be the most promising route in the field of NRR in terms of outstanding ammonia yield and faradaic efficiency; however, it is limited by its poor gas transfer, dependence on organic solvent and significant voltage loss. In this study, a feasible membrane electrode assembly (MEA) configuration is proposed as a promising solution to overcome the above-mentioned problems. The MEA was comprised of lithium-deposited stainless-steel cloth as the cathode, lithium-doped polyethylene oxide (PEO) as the polymer electrolyte and carbon paper loaded with Pt/C catalyst as the anode. A mean ammonia production rate of 2.41 +/- 0.14 mu mol h(-1) cm(geo)(-2) and faradaic efficiency of 8.9 +/- 1.7% were obtained at a cell voltage of 3.6 V. Lower voltage loss (ca. 0.25 V@5 mA cm(geo)(-2)) was observed in the absence of ethanol. In situ X-ray diffraction (XRD), ex situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) measurements were performed to reveal the transformation of lithium deposits. This study offers a new route for LiNR with the advantages of efficient gas transfer, reduced solvent consumption and compact configuration.
Two-dimensional MXene-based materials are potential of presenting unique catalytic performances of electrocatalytic reactions. The surface functionalization of MXene-based catalysts is attractive for developing efficient electrocatalysts toward nitrogen reduction reaction. Herein, we reported a Ti3C2Tx MXene with a medium density of surface functionalized fluorine terminal groups, as an excellent N-2 reduction reaction electrocatalyst with enhanced adsorption and activation of N-2. The Ti3C2Tx MXene catalyst showed a production rate of ammonia as 2.81 x 10(-5) mu mol center dot s(-1)center dot cm(-2), corresponding to a partial current density of 18.3 mu A center dot cm(-2) and a Faradic efficiency of 7.4% at - 0.7 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in aqueous solutions at ambient conditions, substantially exceeding similar Ti3C2Tx MXene catalysts but with higher or lower densities of surface fluorine terminal groups. Our work suggests the capability of developing surface functionalization toolkit for enhancing electrochemical catalytic activities of two-dimensional MXene-based materials.
More than 90% of the global NH3 synthesis is dominated by the Haber-Bosch process, which consumes 2% of the worldwide energy and generates 1.44% of the global carbon emission. The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is regarded as an attractive alternative route to produce NH3 under mild reaction conditions, but the electrocatalysts suffer from the difficulty of N equivalent to N cleavage. In this work, we report a leaf-like MOFderived Ni/Zn bimetallic co-doped nitrogen-coordinated porous carbon (Ni/ Zn-NPC) as a cost-effective NH3 synthesis electrocatalyst. The resultant electrocatalyst achieved a high NH3 production rate of 22.68 mu g h(-1) mgcat(-1) at -1.0 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 electrolyte. The Ni/Zn-NPC material can be called a microwave regenerable catalyst because microwave treatment has proven to be a crucial part of the multi-field coupling to detoxify and make the catalyst reactive, further improving its stability. Density functional theory (DFT) was chosen to explore the mechanism of Ni/Zn-NPC for NRR, providing a profound prediction of the structure of the active site and related reaction pathways and revealing that trace Ni doping optimizes the local coordination environment and N-2 adsorption of Zn atoms.
We for the first time systematically studied the structures and electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction properties of two-dimensional single transition-metal anchored square tetracyanoquinodimethane monolayers (labeled as: TM-sTCNQ, TM = 3d, 4d, 5d series transition metals) by employing density functional theory method. Through high-throughput screenings and full reaction path researches, two promising electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction catalysts Nb-sTCNQ and Mo-sTCNQ have been obtained. The nitrogen reduction reaction onset potential on Nb-sTCNQ is as low as -0.48 V. Furthermore, the Nb-sTCNQ catalyst can quickly desorb NH3 produced with a free energy of 0.65 eV, giving Nb-sTCNQ excellent catalytic cycle performance. The high catalytic activity of the two materials might be attributed to the effective charge transfer between the active center and adsorbed N-2, which enables the active center to adsorb and activate inert N-2 molecules well, and the reduction processes require small energy input (i.e., the maximum free energy changes are small). This work provides insights for finding highly efficient, stable, and low-cost nitrogen reduction reaction electrocatalysts. We hope our results can promote further experimental and theoretical research of this field.
Currently, industrial-scale NH3 production almost relies on energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process from atmospheric N-2 with large amount of CO2 emission, while low-cost and high-efficient catalysts are demanded for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this study, Mn3O4 nanoparticles@reduced graphene oxide (Mn3O4@rGO) composite is reported as an efficient NRR electrocatalyst with excellent selectivity for NH3 formation. In 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, such catalyst obtains a NH3 yield of 17.4 gh(-1)mg(cat)(-1). and a Faradaic efficiency of 3.52% at -0.85 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, it also shows high electrochemical stability during electrolysis process. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations also demonstrate that the (112) planes of Mn3O4 possess superior NRR activity.
The synthesis of ammonia (NH3) from electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under environmental conditions is a promising technology. Compared with the traditional artificial nitrogen fixation process by the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) requires no harsh reaction conditions. In this work, we report that Bi-doped CeO2 nanocubes show high NRR activity as electrocatalysts. The NH3 yield of 17.83 mu gh(-1) mg(cat)(-1). and the Faradaic Efficiency (FE) of 1.61% at -0.9 V are achieved in 0.1 M Na2SO4. The performance is much higher than that for the traditional CeO2 nanoparticles. The detailed analysis indicates that both the Bi doping and the cube morphology are critical for this encouraging NRR performance. The mechanism for improving NRR is further explored with first-principle calculations, demonstrating the importance of Bi-doping for performance enhancement. (C) 2021 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ammonia is an indispensable chemical, of which the industrial production is still dominated by Haber-Bosch process operated at harsh conditions. The ecofriendly electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) emerges as an alternative, however, such technique currently suffers from tough dynamics on account of difficulties in the adsorption or protonation of N-2 on catalysts. To eliminate the obstacle, a simple and valid strategy of ferrous iron replacing copper is proposed to regulate the electronic structure of layered double hydroxide (LDH) for boosting the NRR activity. Thanks to the ferrous iron, the Fe(II)Cu(II)Fe(III)-LDH catalyst attains a NH3 yield rate of 33.1 +/- 2.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a desirable Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 21.7 +/- 1.8% in a neutral electrolyte of 0.1 m Na2SO4, outclassing the Cu(II)Fe(III)-LDH catalyst without Fe(II). The introduction of ferrous iron can adjust the d-band center position to improve the N-2 adsorption and can reduce the energy barrier of the potential determining step (PDS) to facilitate the NRR process. This work provides a new insight on engineering efficient electrocatalysts for nitrogen fixation under ambient conditions.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) paves a new way to cost-efficient production of ammonia, but is still challenging in the sluggish kinetics caused by hydrogen evolution reaction competition and chemical inertness of N N bond. Herein, we report a dual-site strategy for boosting NRR performance. A high-performance catalyst is successfully constructed by anchoring isolated Fe and Mo atoms on hierarchical N doped carbon nanotubes through a facile self-sacrificing template route, which exhibits a remarkably improved NH3 yield rate of 26.8 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat)(-1) with 11.8% Faradaic efficiency, which is 2.5 and 1.6 times larger than those of Fe/NC and Mo/NC. The enhancement can be attributed to the unique hierarchical structure that profits from the contact of electrode and electrolyte, thus improving the mass and electron transport. More importantly, the in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (in situ FTIR) result firmly demonstrates the crucial role of the coupling of Fe and Mo atoms, which can efficiently boost the generation and transmission of *N2Hy intermediates, leading to an accelerated reaction rate.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) has been widely recognized as a promising method for green ammonia synthesis. However, the inert N0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000111111111111111000000000000000000011111111111111100000000000000000001111111111111110000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000N bond, inferior catalytic activity and small electrochemically active area impede its practical application. To circumvent these problems, we proposed self-supported Ti-doped iron phosphide (FeP) nanorod arrays grown on carbon cloth (Ti-FeP/CC) as an electrode for eNRR. The introduction of Ti doping sites regulated the electron structure of FeP, leading to electron migration from Fe to P, which facilitated N2-to-NH3 conversion. The as-prepared Ti-FeP/CC showed an enhancement of electrochemical surface area (ECSA), high electrical conductivity and well-exposed active sites. Ti-FeP/CC was capable of producing a high NH3 yield of 10.93 mu g h-1 cm-2 and faradaic efficiency of 10.77% at an optimal voltage of -0.3 V (vs. RHE) in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution with excellent stability and durability during the eNRR process. This work not only presents a promising electrode material for eNRR, but also provides a new insight into rational heteroatom doping for electrocatalysis. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) has been widely recognized as a promising method for green ammonia synthesis.
Here we report that the plasma-etching processed commercial titanium nitride (TiN-PE, PE represents plasmaetching) that was first treated by ball-milling method (TiN-BM, BM represents ball-milling) is highly electrochemically active for the nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction (NRR) to NH3. The results demonstrate that the TiN-PE as NRR electrocatalyst can deliver a yield rate of NH3 of 3.32 x 10(-)(10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) (4.1 mg h(-1) g(cat.)(-1)) with a Faradaic efficiency of 9.1% at - 0.6 V (vs. RHE) in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution (pH = 3.2). The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis indicates that the titanium oxynitride (TiOxNy) with high oxygen content on TiN surface was significantly enhanced by this plasma-etching approach, which is electrocatalytically active species for NRR. The N-15 isotopic labeling experimental results using N-15(2) as the feeding gas verify that the syntheized NH3 product during NRR is composed of N-15 in (NH4+)-N-15 (the enrichement of 64%) and N-14 in (NH4+)-N-14 (the enrichment of 36%), indicating that the NRR process follows the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism.
The drawback of the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process promotes the research and development of alternative ammonia (NH3) synthesis approaches. The electrochemical nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction (eNRR) may offer a promising method to produce NH3 independent of fossil-fuel-based hydrogen production. However, the low solubility and the low-efficiency mass transport of N-2 in aqueous electrolytes are still among the challenges facing the feasibility of eNRR. Herein, we demonstrate a microtubular ruthenium-carbon nanotube gas diffusion electrode (Ru-CNT GDE), for the first time, applying it to electrochemical NH3 synthesis in an H-type cell under ambient conditions. The highest reported Ru-catalyzed NH3 yield rate of 2.1x10(-9) mol/cm(2) s and high faradaic efficiency of 13.5 % were achieved, showing the superior effect of Ru-CNT GDEs on the eNRR performance. This work provides a new approach for the design and fabrication of self-standing catalyst-loaded GDEs for eNRR.
Oxidised nitrogen species (NOx) are recognised as a major source of false-positive nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) results. Even when addressed, NOx are commonly eradicated at the initial stages of the experiment only. The present work demonstrates the shortcomings of this approach through a scrutiny of the evolution of NH3, NO2- and NO3- during the reduction of N-2-saturated acetonitrile solutions with an Fe-modified electrode. Notwithstanding, thorough purification of the experimental setup, persistent evolution of NO2- during electroreduction was detected in solution and attributed to the pH increase at the electrode surface inducing the release of strongly adsorbed adventitious nitrite. This species could be then reduced to NH3, while the rate of the NRR was unmeasurably low, as confirmed by N-15(2) reduction experiments. This effect of the electrochemically induced changes in pH has not been previously discussed in nonaqueous NRR, which is arguably the only effective means for the N-2 electroreduction to NH3. This work also demonstrates that CH3CN might present a suitable solvent for the NRR if a genuinely active catalyst that operates at reasonable overpotentials becomes available.
Owing to the heavy energy consumption and the massive CO2 emission during ammonia synthesis via Haber-Bosch process, a clean technology of nitrogen reduction electrocatalysis under ambient conditions is of significance for the sustainable energy conversion progress in future. In the study, the nitrogen reduction reaction of TM1N4/TM2 embedded graphene is comprehensively investigated using density functional theory calculations. Fully considering the activity and stability, our results reveal that NiN4/Cr anchored graphene exhibits the best catalytic activity via the enzymatic reaction pathway wherein the potential determining step is located at the first hydrogenation with an onset potential of 0.57 V, being superior to the commercial Ru-based material. Furthermore, compared with the isolated Cr atom decorated nitrogen functionalized graphene, the introduction of NiN4 moiety decreases Delta G(max) and enhances the electrocatalytic performance. According to the Mulliken charge analysis, the physical origin of the catalytic activity is ascribed to the electron transition between the supports and reaction intermediates. Overall, these results pave a way for the design of the high efficient electrode material for ammonia synthesis and provide a fundamental insight into the electrocatalysis.
Ammonia (NH3) has a myriad of applications ranging from fertilizers to value-added chemicals and fuels. More energy-efficient and environmentally friendly approaches are needed to carry out the reduction of nitrogen (N-2) to NH3, and, in principle, this can be done through electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Limited progress has been made in NRR because of the sluggish reaction kinetics and the low selectivity of N-2 toward NH3. Among the various catalysts explored, transition metal nitrides (TMNs) stand out because of their favorable Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. In this perspective, we review the critical work in the field, highlighting the main limitations to be surmounted (i.e., kinetic and transport limitations, optimization criteria, and long-term stability) and the different materials and methods (i.e., catalyst surface engineering, active site modification, and mechanistic studies) that have been proposed to overcome these limitations. Finally, opportunities for future scientific breakthroughs in the field are highlighted and discussed.
Developing efficient catalysts to achieve electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under mild conditions remains a great challenge. Herein, 24 different transition metal (TM) single atom centers anchored on the C9N4 substrate were employed to form TM@C9N4 candidates catalyzing N-2 reduction. By means of high throughput density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we conduct a comprehensive screening of catalytic activity, selectivity, and electronic origins of TM@C9N4 candidates. Particularly, we reported a new descriptor phi based on the intrinsic characteristics of TM active centers, realizing a fast-scan/estimation among various candidates. Most importantly, we found that the established W@C9N4 catalyst simultaneously realizes both excellent selectivity and activity toward NRR with an extremely low limiting potential of -0.24 V. These results offer useful insights into designing high-performance TM@C9N4 NRR catalysts for advancing sustainable NH3 production.
Nitrogen fixation has a rich history within the inorganic chemistry community. In recent years attention has (re)focused on developing electrocatalytic systems capable of mediating the nitrogen reduction reaction (N2RR). Well-defined molecular catalyst systems have much to offer in this context. This personal perspective summarizes recent progress from our laboratory at Caltech, pulling together lessons learned from a number of studies we have conducted, placing them within the broader context of thermodynamic efficiency and selectivity for the N2RR. In particular, proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) provides an attractive strategy to achieve enhanced efficiency for the multi-electron/proton reduction of N-2 to produce NH3 (or NH4+), and electrocatalytic PCET (ePCET) via an ePCET mediator affords a promising means of mitigating HER such that the N2RR can be achieved in a catalytic fashion.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising approach to convert N(2)into high value-added NH3. However, it is still a challenge to achieve an efficient electrocatalyst for the NRR. Herein, it is demonstrated that the Fe(2)O(3)nanoparticles (NPs) generated from a glycerine-based synthesis can be applied as highly efficient catalysts for the NRR. The Fe(2)O(3)NPs show good performance with a high NH(3)yield (22 mu g mg(cat)(-1)h(-1)) and a favorable Faradaic efficiency (FE) (3.5%) at -0.5 Vvs.reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The facile synthesis strategy and satisfactory electrochemical properties demonstrate the potential application of the as-synthesized Fe(2)O(3)NPs for NRR.
The development of environmentally sustainable and highly efficient technologies for ammonia production is crucial for the future advancement of carbon-neutral energy systems. The nitrite reduction reaction (NO2RR) for generating NH3 is a promising alternative to the low-efficiency nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), owing to the low N=O bond energy and high solubility of nitrite. In this study, we designed a highly efficient dual-atom catalyst with Fe-Cu atomic pair sites (termed FeCu DAC), and the as-developed FeCu DAC was able to afford a remarkable NH3 yield of 24,526 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.6 V, with a Faradaic Efficiency (FE) for NH3 production of 99.88 %. The FeCu DAC also exhibited exceptional catalytic activity and selectivity in a Zn-NO2 battery, achieving a record-breaking power density of 23.6 mW cm(-2) and maximum NH3 FE of 92.23 % at 20 mA cm(-2). Theoretical simulation demonstrated that the incorporation of the Cu atom changed the energy of the Fe 3d orbital and lowered the energy barrier, thereby accelerating the NO2RR. This study not only demonstrates the potential of galvanic nitrite-based cells for expanding the field of Zn-based batteries, but also provides fundamental interpretation for the synergistic effect in highly dispersed dual-atom catalysts.
The catalytic synthesis of NH3 from the thermodynamically challenging N-2 reduction reaction under mild conditions is currently a significant problem for scientists. Accordingly, herein, we report the development of a nitrogenase-inspired inorganic-based chalcogenide system for the efficient electrochemical conversion of N-2 to NH3, which is comprised of the basic structure of [Fe-S-2-Mo]. This material showed high activity of 8.7 mg(NH3) mg(Fe)(-1) h(-1) (24 mu g(NH3) cm(-2) h(-1)) with an excellent faradaic efficiency of 27% for the conversion of N-2 to NH3 in aqueous medium. It was demonstrated that the Fe-1 single atom on [Fe-S-2-Mo] under the optimal negative potential favors the reduction of N-2 to NH3 over the competitive proton reduction to H-2. Operando X-ray absorption and simulations combined with theoretical DFT calculations provided the first and important insights on the particular electron-mediating and catalytic roles of the [Fe-S-2-Mo] motifs and Fe-1, respectively, on this two-dimensional (2D) molecular layer slab.
Ammonia (NH3) synthesis is one of the most important catalytic reactions in energy and chemical fertilizer production, which is of great significance to the sustainable development of society and the economy. The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR), especially when driven by renewable energy, is generally regarded as an energy-efficient and sustainable process to synthesize NH3 in ambient conditions. However, the performance of the electrocatalyst is far below expectations, with the lack of a high-efficiency catalyst being the main obstacle. Herein, by means of comprehensive spin-polarized density functional theory (DFT) computations, the catalytic performance of MoTM/C2N (TM = 3d transition metal) for use in eNRR was systematically evaluated. Among the results, MoFe/C2N can be considered the most promising catalyst due to its having the lowest limiting potential (-0.26 V) and high selectivity in the context of eNRR. Compared with its homonuclear counterparts, MoMo/C2N and FeFe/C2N, MoFe/C2N can balance the first protonation step and the sixth protonation step synergistically, showing outstanding activity regarding eNRR. Our work not only opens a new door to advancing sustainable NH3 production by tailoring the active sites of heteronuclear diatom catalysts but also promotes the design and production of novel low-cost and efficient nanocatalysts.
The electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) has broad prospects for green and sustainable NH3 production. Due to the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) performance of transition metal compound may be restricted with low yield rate, we develop transition metal interface engineering to improve the eNRR performance. Although the edge of MoS2 catalyst is active, the MoS2(001) surface is inert for N-2 electroreduction. Through the hydrothermal and electrodeposition methods, Fe(OH)(3) as N-2 and H+ channels coated on MoS2 nanosheets array (MoS2@Fe(OH)(3)/CC) is synthesized. Such catalyst exhibits excellent eNRR performance in 0.1 M Na2SO4 with high Faradaic efficiency (2.76%) and NH3 yield rate (4.23 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2)) at -0.45 V (vs. RHE). This work may provide a new electrocatalyst synthesis pathway for artificial N-2 fixation. Density functional theory calculations show that electrodeposition Fe(OH)(3) can accelerate eNRR process rate of MoS2. (C) 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The (photo)electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction for ammonia (NH3) production is an appealing alternative to the traditional high-energy Haber-Bosch reaction. However, the future of this approach is bleak because of the ultralow N-2 solubility and the nonpolar N N bond causing the NH3 yield and selectivity to be unsatisfactory. Nitrate electroreduction (NORR) into NH3 brings promise for the future landscape of NH3 electrosynthesis due to the low N = O bond energy and high nitrate solubility. Here, we report a highly efficient Pd-doped TiO2 nanoarray electrode for NH3 production from the NORR. With weakened adsorption abilities to the intermediates induced by Pd introduction, the catalyst delivers a record-high NH3 yield of 1.12 mg cm(-2) h(-1) (or 0.066 mmol cm(-2) h(-1)), an impressive NH3 faradaic efficiency (FE) of 92.1%, and an exceptional nitrate conversion of 99.6%. Considering an eight-electron nitrate-to-ammonia reaction and the excellent electrocatalytic activity of Pd/TiO2, we, for the first time, propose and develop a Zn-nitrate battery system, which delivers striking bifunctionality for harnessing the electrons related to the NORR to generate electricity and directly produce NH3, specified by a power density of 0.87 mW cm(-2) and a high NH3 FE of 81.3%. Our work not only verifies the positive effect of Pd doping on facilitating the NORR, but also demonstrates a galvanic nitrate-based cell providing a promising strategy for NH3 production and broadening the field of Zn-based batteries.
Conversion of naturally abundant nitrogen to ammonia is a key (bio)chemical process to sustain life and represents a major challenge in chemistry and biology. Electrochemical reduction is emerging as a sustainable strategy for artificial nitrogen fixation at ambient conditions by tackling the hydrogen- and energy-intensive operations of the Haber-Bosch process. However, it is severely challenged by nitrogen activation and requires efficient catalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction. Here we report that a boron carbide nanosheet acts as a metal-free catalyst for high-performance electrochemical nitrogen-to-ammonia fixation at ambient conditions. The catalyst can achieve a high ammonia yield of 26.57 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). and a fairly high Faradaic efficiency of 15.95% at -0.75 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, placing it among the most active aqueous-based nitrogen reduction reaction electrocatalysts. Notably, it also shows high electrochemical stability and excellent selectivity. The catalytic mechanism is assessed using density functional theory calculations.
3d transition metal catalysts are effective for the electrocatalytic nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction (NRR) to produce ammonia (NH3), but the role of active sites remains elusive. Herein, a series of iron-cobalt oxyhydroxide hollow nanocages (FeCoOOH HNCs) were constructed via controlled Co doping. The as-obtained FeCoOOH HNCs with an Fe/Co ratio of 1 : 1 exhibited a high faradaic efficiency of 14.7% and superior NH3 formation rate of 16.8 & mu;g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at -0.3 V vs. RHE. In situ Raman spectra disclose the existence of intermediates and identify the reaction pathway. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that Co doping could lower the energy barrier of *N-2 & RARR; *NNH & RARR; *NNHH, induced by the preferential proton adsorption on Co sites to drive NH3 electrosynthesis. Moreover, FeCoOOH HNCs with a suitable Fe/Co ratio could boost the *N-2 activation due to the bolstered polarization of adsorbed N-2, while increasing the energy barrier for the hydrogen evolution reaction. This work provides an intriguing strategy towards efficient NRR electrocatalysis by the elaborate design of two 3d transition metals.
The synthesis of ammonia (NH3) through the electrochemical reduction of molecular nitrogen (N-2) is a promising strategy for significantly reducing energy consumption compared to traditional industrial processes. Herein, we report the design of a series of monovacancy and divacancy defective graphenes decorated with single 3d transition metal atoms (TM@MVG and TM@DVG; TM=Sc Zn) as electrocatalysts for the nitrogen-reduction reaction (NRR) aided by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. By comparing energies for N-2 adsorption as well as the free energies associated with *N-2 activation and *N2H formation, we successfully identified V@MVG, with the lowest potential of -0.63 V, to be an effective catalytic substrate for the NRR in an enzymatic mechanism. Electronic properties, including Bader charges, charge density differences, partial densities of states, and crystal orbital Hamilton populations, are further analyzed in detail. We believe that these results help to explain recent observations in this field and provide guidance for the exploration of efficient electrocatalysts for the NRR.
Industrially, NH3 production mainly relies on the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process with the release of a large amount of CO2. Electrochemical fixation of N-2 to NH3 under ambient conditions is an environmentally friendly and sustainable alternative, but the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) requires stable and efficient electrocatalysts. In this work, we report that the electrocatalytic NRR activity of Pd nanoparticles can be improved by surface modification with oxygen-rich tannic acid. The electrochemical test results in 0.1 M Na2SO4 suggest that such a catalyst achieves a large NH3 yield of 24.12 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 9.49% at -0.45 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), rivaling the performances of most of the reported aqueous-based NRR electrocatalysts. In addition, it also shows strong long-term electrochemical stability.
The traditional Haber-Bosch N-2 fixation process suffers from rigorous reaction conditions and massive CO2 emission. By contrast, N-2 electroreduction by water to the direct production of NH3 can be conducted at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, and thus has been attracting increasingly attention. Herein, we develop a nano-CaCO3 template route for the synthesis of Fe, N co-doped porous carbon materials from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 (ZIF-8). The Fe atoms are atomically dispersed in the skeleton of carbon and bonded with four nitrogen atoms. Interestingly, the morphology and pore structure of these carbons have notable effects on their performance for the electrocatalytic reduction of N-2. With an optimized morphology and pore structure tuned by the addition of nano-CaCO3 template, the ZIF-8 derived Fe, N co-doped carbon catalyst shows a Faradaic efficiency of 13.14% and a NH3 yield as high as 13.01 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-) (1) (-0.2 vs. reversible hydrogen electrode) for N-2 reduction reaction in 0.1 M KOH aqueous electrolyte. Morphology engineering strategy may open a new path to designing and synthesizing high-performance carbon-based catalysts for the electroreduction of N-2 to NH3.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) represents a promising alternative route for sustainable ammonia synthesis, which currently dominantly relies on the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process, while it is significantly hampered by the sluggish reaction kinetics due to the short of glorious electrocatalysts. In this work, we report an efficient porous tin heterostructure with intimate dual interfaces for electrosynthesis of ammonia, which exhibits outstanding NRR efficiency with an NH3 yield rate and Faradaic efficiency as high as 30.3 mu g h(-1)mg(cat)(-1) and 41.3%, respectively, and excellent stability as well at a low potential of -0.05 V (vs RHE) in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution under ambient conditions. This matrix value is superior to the analogue Sn-based heterostructures with a single interface and outperforms the currently state-of-the-art Sn-based catalysts. Comprehensive characterizations and theoretical calculations uncovered the formation of the unique intimate dual interfaces in the tin heterostructure promoting the enhancement of the NRR process, which not only effectively exposes more active sites for stronger N-2 chemisorption and activation but also accelerates the interfacial electron transfer and reduces the free energy barrier for the rate-determining *N2H formation step, highlighting the importance of the dual interface effect for the design of electrocatalysts in catalysis.
Electrocatalysts for efficient production of ammonia from nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions are attracted growing interest in recent years, which demonstrate a great potential to replace the Haber-Bosch method which suffers the problems of the huge energy consumption and massive CO2 production. In this work, a novel electrocatalyst of Au-25-Cys-M is fabricated for NRR under ambient conditions, with transition metal ions (e.g., Mo6+, Fe3+, Co2+, Ni2+) atomically decorated on Au-25 nanoclusters via thiol bridging. The Au-25-Cys-Mo catalyst exhibits the highest Faradaic efficiency (26.5%) and NH3 yield (34.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) in 0.1 m HCl solution. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis and high angle annular dark field image-scanning transmission electron microscopy characterization reveal that the electronic structure of Mo is optimized by forming the structure of Au-S-Mo and Mo acts as active sites for activating the nitrogen to promote the electrochemical production of ammonia. This work provides a new insight into the precise fabrication of efficient NRR electrocatalysts.
Electrochemical synthesis of ammonia is considered to be a promising approach due to its environmentally friendly process, great effort has been made for improving the catalyst to obtain satisfying catalytic activity and selectivity. Herein, we attempted to prepare the MOF-based derivative Cu/Cu2O@C via the wet method for N-2 and NO3- reduction to synthesize ammonia. For the nitrogen reduction, the as-prepared catalyst exhibited an excellent ammonia yield (6.02 mu mol center dot cm(-2)center dot h(-1)) and Faraday efficiency (FE, 10.48%) at - 0.5 V. While the overall yield of catalytic nitrate reduction reached 158.66 mu mol center dot cm(-2)center dot h(-1) and the FE reached 76.97% owing to higher solubility and a better conversion pathway. This is considerably higher than the yield of nitrogen reduction while preventing the energy consumption of reforming hydrogen production. This work helps to promote the development of artificial ammonia synthesis under ambient conditions.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction is deemed as a prospective strategy toward low-carbon and environmentally friendly NH3 production under mild conditions, but its further application is still plagued by low NH3 yield and poor faradaic efficiency (FE). Thus, electrocatalysts endowing with high activity and satisfying selectivity are highly needed. Herein, Bi nanoparticles in situ confined in carbon rods (Bi NPs@CRs) are reported, which are fabricated via thermal annealing of a Bi-MOF precursor as a high-efficiency electrocatalyst for artificial NH3 synthesis with favorable selectivity. Such an electrocatalyst conducted in 0.1 M HCl achieves a high FE of 11.50% and a large NH3 yield of 20.80 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. at -0.55 and -0.60 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, respectively, which also possesses high electrochemical durability.
Ammonia (NH3) synthesis at mild conditions by electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction (eNRR) has received more attention and has been regarded as a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. Lewis acidbase pairs (LPs) can chemisorb and react with nitrogen by electronic interaction, while the tuning of the microenvironment near electrode can hinder hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) thus improving the selectivity of the eNRR. Herein, the FeOOH nanorod coupled with LPs on the surface (i.e., Fe, Fe-O) was synthesized, which could effectively drive eNRR. Meanwhile, polyethylene glycol (PEG) was introduced to serve as a local nonaqueous electrolyte system to inhibit HER. The prepared FeOOH-150 catalyst achieved outstanding eNRR performance with an NH3 yield rate of 118.07 & mu;g h- 1mgcat - 1 and a Faradaic efficiency of 51.4 % at -0.6 V vs. RHE in 0.1 M LiClO4 + 20 % PEG. Both the experiment and DFT calculations revealed that the interaction of PEG with Lewis base sites could optimize nitrogen adsorption configuration and activation.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) has received much attention in recent times. Aiming for, discovering potential electrocatalysts with superior activity, stability and selectivity, a series of 3 d transition metal dimers were studied by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The investigation reveals that most of the metal dimers have admirable stability, and partial density of states (PDOS) confirms that the unoccupied and occupied d orbitals of metal atoms are the key for effective activation of N-2. Especially, two metal dimers bonded to nitrogen-doped graphene, FeFe and CoCo, can selectively adsorb and activate N-2 for efficient conversion. Their limiting potentials are -0.44 and -0.45 V, which are superior than to most of the catalysts and they can well suppress the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Moreover, the desorption free energy of NH3 is 0.54 and 0.57 eV respectively for FeFe and CoCo, guarantees the good durability of the catalysts. (C) 2020 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The traditional Haber-Bosch method of ammonia (NH3) synthesis has Low production efficiency and can lead to greenhouse gas emission due to high temperature and pressure dependent reactions. Hence, the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in a mild environment has been developed. However, the inert N N triple bond and the competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) limit its wide application. In order to find an effective way of reducing N-2 into NH3, in this work, PC6 monolayers with good electro-optical properties and eight transition metals (V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn) are chosen to construct PC6-TM3 and PC6-TM4 single duster catalysts (SCCs), which are proved to have low overpotential, multiple active-sites and superior activity. The thermodynamic stability, N-2 adsorption, reaction paths, selectivity for the NRR and catalytic mechanism are systematically investigated. (PC6-Co-3, PC6-Fe-4)/(PC6-V-3, PC6-Cr-3)/(PC6-V-4, PC6-Mn-4) prefer to adsorb N-2 rather than H in the end-on/side-on I/side-on III mode. PC6-Fe-4 and PC6-Cr-3 are finally screened out which have excellent catalytic activity with an overpotential of -0.46 V and -0.26 V in the consecutive path of side-on III and I modes, respectively. Moreover, both of them have 100% faradaic efficiency and present high selectivity for the NRR. The catalytic mechanism is elucidated by discussing the electronic properties of PC6-Cr-3, where the back-donation behaviors of Cr atoms Way an important role during the formation of NH3. This research may provide theoretical guidance for finding potential NRR catalysts with excellent performance and high selectivity.
In comparison with the traditional Haber-Bosch process, the electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) with high purity and sustainability became a popular process to satisfy the demand of ammonia. However, the strong competing reaction (hydrogen evolution reaction, HER) and low reaction efficiency hinder the practical applications of NRR. Thus, the development of advanced NRR catalysts by regulating the electronic structure and the activity of single active sites is urgent. Here, in our study, vanadium-doped NiS2 (V-NiS2) nanospheres with abundant active sites were first proposed in the NRR field, which exhibited excellent catalytic activity with a high NH3 yield (47.63 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), at -0.45 V) and good faradaic efficiency (FE) (9.37% at -0.35 V) in a 0.1 M HCl solution. Moreover, V-NiS2 also performed desired selectivity and stability. This study provides a pathway to design advanced NRR catalysts for practical applications.
Using density functional theory calculations, we explored the potential of defective MoS2 sheets decorated with a series of single transition-metal (TM) atoms as electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). The computed reaction free-energy profiles reveal that the introduction of embedded single TM atoms significantly reduces the difficulty to break the N equivalent to N triple bond and thus facilitates the activation of inert nitrogen. Onset potential close to -0.6 V could be achieved by anchoring various TMs, such as Sc, Ti, Cu, Hf, Pt, and Zr, and the formation of the second ammonia molecule limits the overall process. The Ti-decorated nanosheet possesses the lowest free-energy change of -0.63 eV for the potential determining step. To better predict the catalysis performance, we introduced a descriptor, phi, which is the product of the number of valence electron and electronegativity of the decorated TM. It shows a good linear relationship between the d-band center and binding energy of nitrogen, except for those metals with less than half-filled d-band. Although the metals in Group IIIB and IVB have strong adsorption interactions with N atoms, the Gibbs free-energy changes for desorption of the second ammonia are unexpectedly low. The selectivity of these systems toward nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is also significantly improved. Therefore, those defective MoS2 decorated with Sc, Ti, Zr, and Hf are suggested as promising electrocatalysts for NRR, for their both high efficiency and selectivity.
Nitrogen fixation is one of the most critical issues in chemical science and technology. However, developing efficient and stable electro(photo)catalysts remains a comprehensive challenge. Here, we constructed 21 singleatom heterostructures consisting of g-C3N4 with nitrogen vacancies and graphene (TM@Nvs-g-C3N4/graphene, TM=Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Y, Zr, Nb, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Ag, Pd, Cd and Pt) and systematically investigated their stabilities and catalytic activities for the conversion from N2 to NH3. The calculations indicate that all heterostructures are thermodynamically stable. Among of them, 15 TM@Nvs-g-C3N4/graphene heterojunctions can activate N2, and effectively reduce N2 into NH3 by a distal or alternating mechanism. The Cr, Mo and Nb atoms anchored in Nvs-g-C3N4/graphene heterojunctions have higher activities and selectivities for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). In particular, Mo@Nvs-g-C3N4/graphene has the highest NRR performance. The Bader charge and PDOS analysis elucidate that the D-& pi;* feedback bonds formed by 4d orbitals of Mo atom and & pi;* orbitals of N2 plays a dominant role in the activation of N2. Altogether, the results obtained in this study could provide new avenues for the development of electrochemical catalyst for the reduction of N2 to NH3.
Developing stable and efficient catalysts for the electroreduction of nitrogen remains a huge challenge and single atom catalysts (SACs) are expected to achieve relatively high ammonia selectivity at low applied potential. Based on density functional theory calculations, the potential application of 27 single transition metal (TM = Sc-Zn, Y-Ag, Hf-Au) atoms supported by N(O)-dualdoped graphene (TM-O2N2/G) for the electroreduction of nitrogen is intensively investigated. At low nitrogen coverage, W(Mo, Nb, Ta)-O2N2/G are predicted to yield low ammonia selectivity (< 13%) at limiting-potential of -0.58, -0.53, -0.56, and -0.76 V starting from adsorbed nitrogen with side-on mode, respectively. With the increasing N-2 coverage, the TM-O2N2/G is reconstructed as TM-(N-2)(2)N-2/graphene. The electroreduction of nitrogen proceeds from end-on adsorbed nitrogen molecule with high ammonia selectivity, and the limiting-potentials are theoretically predicted as -0.20, -0.40, -0.29, and -0.21 V on W(Mo, Nb, Ta)-(N2)2N(2)/G, respectively. It is suggested that utilizing the reorganization of local coordination environments of SACs by high coverage of reactant molecules under reaction condition can not only enhance the activity at lower limiting-potential but also improve the ammonia selectivity.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions provides sustainable and green pathways; meanwhile, efficient electrocatalysts are strongly required. In this work, we report an interfacial active site strategy to improve the electrocatalytic NRR performance by modification of Au nanowire (Au NW) surface with oxygen-rich tannic acid (TA). Benefiting from their ultrafine one-dimensional nanowire architecture and the TA-modified metallic interface, the TA-Au NWs effectively facilitate the adsorption and activation of reactants. The TA-Au NWs exhibit a large NH3 yield rate (15.71 mg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1).) and a high Faraday efficiency of 14.83% at -0.3 V (vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode) in a N-2-saturated 0.1 M Na2SO4 with an excellent electrochemical durability. This work provides a general surface modification strategy to fabricate highly active NRR electrocatalysts. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical dinitrogen (N-2) reduction to ammonia (NH3) coupled with methanol electro-oxidation is presented in the current work. Here, methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) is proposed as an alternative anode reaction to oxygen evolution reaction (OER) to accomplish electrons-induced reduction of N-2 to NH3 at cathode and oxidation of methanol at anode in alkaline media thereby reducing the overall cell voltage for ammonia production. Cobalt pyrophosphate micro-flowers assembled by nanosheets are synthesized via a surfactant-assisted sonochemical approach. By virtue of structural and morphological advantages, the maximum Faradaic efficiency of 43.37% and NH3 yield rate of 159.6 mu g h(-1) mg(ca)(-1) is achieved at a potential of -0.2 V versus RHE. The proposed catalyst is shown to also exhibit a very high activity (100 mA mg(-1) at 1.48 V), durability (2 h) and production of value-added formic acid at anode (2.78 mu mol h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and F.E. of 59.2%). The overall NH3 synthesis is achieved at a reduced cell voltage of 1.6 V (200 mV less than NRR-OER coupled NH3 synthesis) when OER at anode is replaced with MOR and a high NH3 yield rate of 95.2 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and HCOOH formation rate of 2.53 mu mol h(-1) mg(-1) are witnessed under full-cell conditions.
As a carbon-neutral alternative technology to the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical N(2)reduction enables eco-friendly NH(3)synthesis under ambient conditions but requires electrocatalysts to drive the N(2)reduction reaction (NRR). Here, P doping is proposed as a valid strategy to greatly increase the NRR activity of the V2O3/C shuttle-like nanostructure. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, the NH(3)yield of original V2O3/C is 12.6 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)and a Faraday efficiency (FE) of 6.06% at -0.45 V and -0.25 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), respectively. P-doped V2O3/C (P-V2O3/C), with a mass ratio of P of 6.05%, is capable of achieving a large NH(3)yield of 22.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)at -0.35 V vs. RHE, and a high FE of 13.78% at -0.25 V vs. RHE. It also shows high electrochemical durability and outstanding selectivity for NH(3)formation. Combined with density functional theory calculations, the catalytic mechanism was further explored.
Developing cost-efficient electrocatalysts for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion and revealing the reaction mechanism are appealing yet challenging tasks. Some transition metal oxides have been recently used to catalyze the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), but their further applications are greatly impeded because of their questionable conductivity, poor dispersion, limited active sites, and so forth. Herein, three-dimensional Ni foam-supported urchin-like Al-doped Co3O4 nanospheres rich in surface oxygen vacancies (Al-Co3O4/NF) were prepared via a hydrothermal process and subsequent annealing treatment. It is shown that introducing Al atoms into Co3O4 effectively tunes the electronic properties of the catalyst, and the increased surface oxygen vacancies induced by Al doping facilitate the activation of nitrogen. What is more, this urchin-like nanostructure, demonstrating an ability to limit the coalescence of gas bubbles, enables the rapid removal of small gas bubbles and better exposure of active sites to N-2, thus yielding an impressive ammonia electrosynthesis activity (NH3 yield rate: 6.48 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2); Faradaic efficiency: 6.25%) in 0.1 M KOH. Electrochemical-based in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was employed to study the mechanism of NRR, indicating an associative alternating pathway.
The current industrial synthesis of ammonia proceeds through Haber-Bosch process, in which the adsorbed N2 are directly dissociated, and the reaction is limited by Bronsted-Evans-Polanyi (BEP) relation. In this work, the catalytic properties of Fe4 clusters fixed on g-C6N6 for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) are explored by first-principle calculations. The studies on the structural stability, adsorption capacity for N2 and the change of Gibbs free energy proves that Fe4 cluster catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic activity and high selectivity for NRR. The acceptance-donation interaction between Fe4@g-C6N6 and N atoms presented by PDOS and Bader charge analysis will facilitate the breaking of N---N bonds. The 100 % Faraday efficiency further proves the high NRR selectivity. The results provide an effective strategy for designing high-performance electrochemical NRR catalysts.
The synthesis of NH3 via electrochemical N2 fixation at ambient conditions has been proposed as a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, the development of highly efficient and selective electrocatalysts remains a challenge. In this study, uniform Ag@AgP2 @Ni-CoP@C core-shell nanowires were synthesized using a template-engaged strategy. The merging of conductive Ag core with active AgP2 and porous carbon-coated Ni-doped CoP shells favors the mass and electron transfers, effectively lowering the activation energy toward the reduction of N2 to NH3. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further indicates that the sandwiched AgP2 layer plays crucial roles in promoting electrocatalytic kinetics and suppressing the competitive hydrogen evolution reactions. Benefiting from these advantages, the titled catalyst achieved a high NH3 yield of 16.84 & mu;g h-1 mg-1 cat. at-0.4 V (vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) and a high Faradaic efficiency of 21.7 % at-0.3 V vs. RHE, as well as high electrochemical and structure stability.
Production of green ammonia through electrochemical reduction of N-2 is amongst the major challenges of applied catalysis today. A large number of materials have been reported to be capable of catalysing the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), but the reliability of these results has been questioned due to the lack of evidence for N-2 being the source of produced NH3. In the present study, we use density functional theory (DFT) to demonstrate that the NRR is highly unfavoured versus the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) on a wide selection of metal catalysts, some of which have been reported to be active for the N-2 electroreduction to ammonia previously. Most importantly, we provide a comprehensive analysis of ammonia formation through electroreduction of nitrogen oxides, specifically NO and NO2, which are very hard to avoid as impurities in the NRR experiments, and demonstrate that these processes can effectively compete with the HER. In general, N-2 weakly adsorbs on the metal surfaces but NO and NO2 exhibit stronger interactions and a greater stability of the reduced intermediates. These results highlight NO/NO2 reduction as a potential source of ammonia in NRR experiments and might also guide future design of catalysts for the fundamentally and practically important nitrogen oxide reduction reactions.
The energy-intensive nature, high level of CO2 emission and sophisticated infrastructure requirement hampered the utilization of the Haber-Bosch process as a green and decentralized system for NH3 production. The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides a promising alternative to fix N-2 under ambient conditions. Here, we report CoFe2O4 nanoclusters anchored on reduced graphene oxide for enhanced nitrogen reduction. In contrast to monometallic counterparts, this composite catalyst achieves a faradaic efficiency of 6.2% with a high rate of NH3 production of 4.2 x 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(-2) in 0.1 M Na2SO4 aqueous electrolyte. Amelioration of NRR performance could be attributed to the availability of different types of adsorption and active sites for N-2 after the incorporation of Co in the Fe3O4 structure. Also, the homogeneous dispersion of nanoclusters on a 2D support can achieve higher active site density. This work provides a new category of binary metal oxides catalysts for NRR under ambient conditions.
Electrochemical nitrogen fixation offers a promising route for sustainable NH3 production, while the rational design of effective and durable electrocatalysts is urgently required for an effective nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) process. Herein, we explore lithium iron oxide (LiFeO2) as a potential NRR catalyst. The developed LiFeO2/reduced graphene oxide (rGO) delivered a combination of both a high NH3 yield (40.5 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)) and high Faradaic efficiency (16.4%), exceeding those of nearly all the previously reported Li- and Fe-based catalysts. Theoretical computations showed that Fe and Li atoms on the LiFeO2 (111) facet synergistically activated N-2 while Fe atoms served as the key active centers. Meanwhile, the undesired HER can be well impeded on both Fe and Li atoms to enable a high NRR selectivity.
Two renewable methods for reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with ammonia (NH3) production are the renewable H-2-combined Haber-Bosch process and the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR). However, progress in eNRR has fallen short of expectations. Here, we demonstrated a well-controlled electrochemically viable and clean NH3 production with spinel-type (V,Ni,Mn)(3)O4-x/Nb2O5-y nanoflowers, successfully synthesized via a facile one-pot hydrothermal method on nickel foam, aimed at boosting the eNRR performance, after surveying many Ni-V-Mn-Nb quaternary, ternary, and binary oxide systems for their electrochemical and structural properties. The best NH3 yield from a quaternary system exhibited the most promising results, achieving 3.19 mg h(-1) cm(-2) (1.28 mg h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) at a potential of -0.5 V vs. RHE, with a remarkable faradaic efficiency (FE) of 22.7%, which is superb among the current state of the art methods. Besides, the electrocatalyst performance, evaluated in terms of energy conversion, showed a cell energy efficiency of 37.66%. An NN bond-weakening micro-mechanism of electron transport for the nonstoichiometric Ni-V-Mn-Nb oxide system is proposed to elucidate this exceptional activity. Furthermore, we suggest a reaction micro-mechanism encompassing electron transport and N-2 trapping, contributing to the observed excellent activity in NH3 production.
In great contrast to energy-extensive Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction offers green and sustainable ammonia production at ambient reaction conditions. Among them, the demand for low-consumption and high-performance non-noble-metal catalysts is still a hot spot in the field of electrocatalysts. Herein, we demonstrate that single Fe atom loaded on anatase TiO2(001) shows well-balanced activity for N-2 fixation and NH3 dissociation. In addition, it is active to catalyze nitrogen reductions with the initial hydrogenation to the distal N as the potential-determining step (1.27 eV). Considering that TiO2 is a model photocatalyst, single Fe atom can promote electron-hole separation to enhance the photocatalytic performance. Thus, Fe/TiO2(001) has been identified as a potential catalyst for photo-electrochemical ammonia synthesis.
A novel electrochemical N2 reduction system is reported. Ammonia was formed with a significant current efficiency (up to 8%) by a simple electrolysis, which was conducted under N2 flow (I atm) in a solution of LiClO4 (0.2 M) in tetrahydrofuran / ethanol (99:1 v/v) on some metal electrodes. Higher current efficiency (48.7%) for NH3 formation was achieved when the electrolysis was conducted under high pressure of N2 (50 atm). Lithium seemed to act as a catalyst (mediator) in this electrochemical system.
Ambient nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is attracting extensive interest but still suffers from sluggish kinetics owing to competitive rapid hydrogen evolution and difficult nitrogen activation. Herein, nanoporous NiSb alloy is reported as an efficient electrocatalyst for N-2 fixation, achieving a high ammonia yield rate of 56.9 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with a Faradaic efficiency of 48.0%. Density functional theory calculations reveal that in NiSb alloy, Ni favors N-2 hydrogenation while the neighboring Sb separates active sites for proton and N-2 adsorption, which optimizes the adsorption/desorption of intermediates and enables an energetically favorable NRR pathway. This work indicates promising electrocatalytic application of the alloys of 3d and p block metals toward the NRR and provides an intriguing strategy to enhance the reduction of inert molecules by restraining the competitive hydrogen adsorption.
For over a century, NH3 synthesis via the Haber-Bosch process has brought huge energy costs and high CO2 emission. The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction is an environmentally-benign alternative, which can be driven by renewable energy. In this work, CeO2 nanoparticle-reduced graphene oxide nanocomposites (CeO2-rGO) behave as an efficient non-noble-metal N-2 reduction reaction electrocatalyst with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, CeO2-rGO achieves a high faradaic efficiency of 4.78% and a large NH3 yield of 16.98 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.7 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode. The catalytic mechanism was explored using density functional theory calculations.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis, which is an alternative approach to the Haber-Bosch process, has attracted the attention of researchers because of its advantages including mild working conditions, environmental protection, and simple process. However, the biggest problem in this field is the lack of high-performance catalysts. Here, we report high-efficiency electroreduction of N(2)to NH(3)on gamma-MnO2-supported Pd nanoparticles (Pd/gamma-MnO2) under ambient conditions, which exhibits excellent catalytic activity with an NH(3)yield rate of 19.72 mu g center dot mg(Pd)(-1)h(-1)and a Faradaic efficiency of 8.4% at -0.05 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) characterization shows that Pd nanoparticles are homogeneously dispersed on the gamma-MnO2. Pd/gamma-MnO(2)outperforms other catalysts including Pd/C and gamma-MnO(2)because of its synergistic catalytic effect between Pd and Mn.
Electrocatalytic ammonia (NH3) synthesis under ambient temperature and pressure is an emerging sustainable method for dinitrogen (N-2) fixation, providing a potential environmentally benign pathway for N-2 fixation using renewable power of electricity. However, this strategy is subjected to the low activity of electrocatalysts. In this work, a Co-N-x-C hybrid derived from the metal-organic framework with built-in Co-N-x active sites was fabricated. A high NH3 yield (37.6 mu g mg(-1) h(-1) at -0.9 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode) and favorable faradaic efficiency (17.6% at -0.3 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode) were achieved in a 0.05 M H2SO4 electrolyte. The dominating coordination environment of Co-N-x was finally determined by combining X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy and theoretical calculation. Co-N-3 demonstrated pivotal active centers that facilitated N-2 adsorption, lowered the free energy of the rate-determining step, inhibited hydrogen evolution reaction, and promoted the N-2 reduction reaction (N2RR). The hierarchical pore structure of catalysts also promoted N-2 adsorption, and the produced high pressure contributed to the further reaction of N-2 fixation. This work also provides a new strategy for developing cost-effective electrocatalytic materials for N2RR.
As a substitute for synthetic ammonia under mild condition, electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides a hopeful approach for the development of ammonia. Nevertheless, the current development of NRR electrocatalysts is far from enough and a systematic research is needed to gain a better improvement. This article presents that 2D C3N4-NV with a large specific surface area and abundant nitrogen vacancies is prepared by a simple and feasible method, and used as a metal-free catalyst for electrocatalytic NRR. Experiment result and density functional theory (DFT) calculation reveal that nitrogen vacancies in 2D C3N4-NV can act as an efficient active site for catalytic NRR, which is conducive to capturing and activating N-2, lowering Gibbs free energy (Delta G) in reaction and inhibiting hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) at the same time. In addition, the larger specific surface area also makes more active site exposed, which is good for the contact between the electrolyte and the active site, thus enhancing its NRR activity. The electrocatalyst shows an excellent catalytic activity for NRR in 0.1 M HCl, including Faradaic efficiency of 10.96%, NH3 yields of 17.85 mu g h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1), and good stability (over 20 h). (C) 2021 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press.
Various methods for ammonia production are being studied world wide. The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) has been considered an ideal eco-friendly approach for ammonia production. In this study, we proposed a nitrogen-impregnated carbon coating strategy to increase the activity of TiO2-based catalysts for eNRR. Electrochemical measurements revealed that TiO2@N-C resulted in a higher ammonia yield rate (5.302 mu g h-1 cm-2) and enhanced Faradaic efficiency (2.46%) at -0.1 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. The N-impregnated carbon coating enhanced electron conductivity and electrocatalytic activity, which indicates better performance of the eNRR.
The electrochemical way of reducing nitrogen to ammonia presents green and economic advantages to dial down irreversible damage caused by the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. Here, we introduce an advanced catalyst CB[7]-K-2[B12H12]@Au with highly dispersed and ultrafine nano-gold. The CB[7]-K-2[B12H12]@Au electrochemically driven ammonia yield and Faraday efficiency is as high as 41.69 mu g h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1)and 29.53% (at -0.4 Vvs.RHE), respectively, reaching the US Department of Energy (DOE) utility index of ambient ammonia production along with excellent cycle stability and tolerance that indicates a high potential of industrial practical value. Experimental results and theoretical calculations show that the key to an excellent electrochemical nitrogen reduction performance lies in the smart design of the CB[7]-K-2[B12H12]@Au catalyst combining the stable substrate anchored Au nanoparticles and K(+)ions that effectively prevent the hydrogen evolution reaction and polarize *N(2)leading to lowering of the rate determining step. This research will promote the further development of electrochemical ammonia production with low environmental impact.
The ammonia synthesis under ambient condition is of significance for sustainable energy utilization. Herein, the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) on FeN(3)embedded graphane and fluorographene are investigated by density functional theory calculations. Our results indicate that the functional fluorographene accelerates electrocatalytic N(2)fixation with an onset-potential of 0.97 V via alternating mechanism, being superior to the graphane counterpart. Furthermore, the fluorination alleviates the H poisoning and increases NRR selectivity. The improved performance is originated from the strong electron-withdrawing of the F decoration. Moreover, the inferior NRR performance of the FeN(3)decorated graphane indicates the infeasibility as the NRR electrode, reasonably avoiding the experimental attempt. This finding opens up the new design for the carbon-based electrocatalysts with high efficiency of NH(3)synthesis.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction is a more ecologically friendly alternative to the high-energy Haber-Bosch method for ammonia manufacturing, but was lack of efficient catalyst, especially in the neutral electrolyte. Inspired by the composition of biological nitrogenase with the elements of Mo, Fe and S, vulcanized FeMoO4 was designed as the nitrogen reduction electrocatalyst, which exhibited excellent catalytic performance and stability for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in neutral media. During the NRR test, the vulcanized FeMoO4 achieved 31.93 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) ammonia production rate and high Faradaic efficiency (30.9%) at -0.39 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 M Na2SO4. The results demonstrated the viability of Fe-Mo base as an electrocatalyst for NRR and laid the path for the creation of a nitrogenase-like biomimetic electrocatalysts to achieve the effective N-2 fixation.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has been deemed a promising and reliable approach to massively produce ammonia under ambient conditions. A high-efficiency electrocatalyst with an excellent selectivity is highly required to reduce the multiple reaction barriers of N-2 + 3H(2)O -> 2NH(3) + 1.5O(2). Here, we report electrospun zirconia nanofibers as a non-noble NRR electrocatalyst to convert nitrogen to ammonia. Theoretical calculations predict that the Zr sites with oxygen vacancies are favorable for nitrogen adsorption and reduction. Experimentally, the larger concentration of oxygen defects in such an electrocatalyst allowed achieving a NH3 formation rate of 9.63 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and an optimal faradaic efficiency of 12.1% at -0.7 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4.
Ammonia (NH3) is one of the most important basic chemicals and is used worldwide in both industry and agriculture. The main industrial process for the production of NH3 is the Haber-Bosch process, which requires a large amount of energy as a result of the use of high temperatures and pressures, making it costly, inefficient, and environmentally unfriendly. Because of the growing demand for NH3 in industry and agriculture, the development of alternative technologies, especially those having low energy consumption and producing little pollution, is urgently required. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is an example of such a reaction. However, the efficiency of the NRR is limited by the high N N bond strength and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Therefore, current implementations of the NRR are not suitable for industrialization. To enable the use of the NRR in an industrial setting, high-performance electrocatalysts are required. In this study, density functional theory calculations were used to investigate the performance of NRR electrocatalysts based on the transition metal doped Ir(100) surface to yield two-atom active sites (TM2@Ir(100)) from an energetic perspective. Mn-2@Ir(100) and Fe-2@Ir(100) were determined to have high catalytic activities for the NRR based on the screening of the adsorption energies and activation of N-2, formation of adsorbed N2H, desorption of adsorbed NH3, and HER inhibition. Finally, using these two catalysts, the energetics of the whole NRR pathway were calculated. The key findings are that the para-doped Mn-2@Ir(100) catalyst affords excellent NH3 selectivity and NRR activity with an extremely low free energy barrier of 0.36 eV.
Ammonia is among the available sustainable fuels for humans in the future. Electrochemical nitrogen fixation, which is a promising ammonia synthesis method, can achieve artificial N-2 fixation at room temperature and pressure. We report that 5% Co4N/Co-2 C@rGO is a high-efficiency nitrogen reduction reaction electrocatalyst for ammonia synthesis under ambient conditions. The catalyst obtains high NH3 yield (24.12 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (24.97%) at -0.1 V (vs RHE) in 0.1 M HCl. The addition of graphene reduces CoN to Co2C and Co4N. A high ratio of Co-C bonds improves NRR performance. The excellent performance of the catalyst is attributed to the high proportion of pyridine N and pyrrole N. Data analysis results show that the NRR on the surface of Co4N adopts a favorable Mars-van Krevelen reaction mechanism. Moreover, the Co2C(101) crystal plane is more conducive to NRR.
The traditional Haber-Bosch process in industry to produce NH3 leads to excessive CO2 emissions and a large amount of energy consumption. Ambient electrochemical N-2 reduction is emerging as a green and sustainable alternative method to convert N-2 to NH3, but is in sore need of efficient and stable electrocatalysts. Herein, we propose using Pd-doped TiO2 nanoparticles as a high-efficiency electrocatalyst to synthesize NH3 under ambient conditions. The Pd-TiO2 catalyst delivers a large NH3 yield (17.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and a high faradaic efficiency (12.7%) at -0.50 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in a neutral electrolyte, outperforming most Pd- and Ti-based electrocatalysts recently reported for N-2 reduction. Most importantly, it also demonstrates extraordinary long-term electrochemical stability.
Electrochemical reduction of N-2 reaction (NRR) into NH3 promises a sustainable and environmentally friendly technology at ambient temperature. However, high energy barrier and the competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction result in poor NH3 yield and low faradaic efficiency (FE) of NRR. Herein, the FeS2 catalyst was synthesized via a one-step hydrothermal method for NRR. In the N-2-saturated Na2SO4 electrolyte, this catalyst exhibited superior catalytic performance to achieve a high NH3 yield (37.2 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and FE (11.2%) with high stability and selectivity at -0.5 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, outperforming other NRR catalysts. According to experimental results, a preferable associative distal pathway was proposed. Density functional theory calculations revealed that the NRR process can proceed preferably on Fe atoms instead of S atoms, and the conversion of *NH2 to *NH3 was the potential-determining step with an energy barrier of 0.45 eV. Therefore, this work offers a new avenue to prepare high-efficiency and highly selective transition-metal-based catalysts for NRR under ambient conditions.
The Haber-Bosch process is one of the most widely utilized approaches for the synthesis of ammonia, and has many disadvantages, such as the high energy consumption and generation of large amounts of greenhouse gases. Therefore, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has received significant attention, as it is more sustainable and environmentally friendly. In this study, we report a CuAg/Ti(3)C(2)MXene catalyst for the electrocatalytic NRR. This MXene-based composite material exhibits remarkable performance for electrochemical synthesis of ammonia under ambient conditions. When measured in a 0.1 M KOH solution at an applied potential of -0.5 Vvs.reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), the catalyst achieved an ammonia production rate and faradaic efficiency of 4.12 mu mol cm(-2)h(-1)and 9.77%, respectively. These values indicate excellent stability and selectivity compared with the previously reported 2D NRR electrocatalysts. Moreover, the results of density functional theory calculations illustrate that with preferable adsorption of N-2, desorption of NH3, and suppression of the HER, CuAg/Ti(3)C(2)is a promising catalyst for the NRR. The excellent electrical conductivity and fast electron transport in the CuAg/Ti(3)C(2)catalyst are favorable for the evaluated electrocatalytic reaction. Both experimental results and DFT calculations reveal that CuAg plays a crucial role in the catalytic activity and electrical conductivity enhancement for Ti(3)C(2)based materials.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising approach for NH3 production under mild conditions. Herein, the catalytic performance of 3d transition metal (TM) atoms anchored on s-triazine-based g-C3N4 (TM@g-C3N4) in NRR is systematically investigated by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Among these TM@g-C3N4 systems, the V@g-C3N4, Cr@g-C3N4, Mn@g-C3N4, Fe@g-C3N4, and Co@g-C3N4 monolayers have lower Delta G(*NNH) values, especially the V@g-C3N4 monolayer has the lowest limiting potential of -0.60 V and the corresponding limiting-potential steps are *N-2+H++e(-)=*NNH for both alternating and distal mechanisms. For V@g-C3N4, the transferred charge and spin moment contributed by the anchored V atom activate N-2 molecule. The metal conductivity of V@g-C3N4 provides an effective guarantee for charge transfer between adsorbates and V atom during N-2 reduction reaction. After N-2 adsorption, the p-d orbital hybridization of *N-2 and V atoms can provide or receive electrons for the intermediate products, which makes the reduction process follow acceptance-donation mechanism. The results provide an important reference to design high efficiency single atom catalysts (SACs) for N-2 reduction.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) under ambient conditions using sustainable energy sources is a fascinating approach for ammonia (NH3) production to replace the industrial Haber-Bosch process with enormous energy input and continuous CO2 emissions. However, the eNRR process remains a coveted goal due to the poor product selectivity, low activity, and stability of traditional catalysts. Inspired by recent experimental advances in dual-atom catalysts, herein, by means of comprehensive spin-polarized density functional theory (DFT) computations, the catalytic performance of various binary transition metals dispersed in nitrogen-doped porous graphene (NPG) for the eNRR was systematically evaluated. Our results revealed that the N atoms around vacancies in the substrate can strongly stabilize the metal dimers by forming metal-N bonds. Among FeFe, FeCo, FeNi, FeCu, FeRh, FeRu, FePd, MoFe, MoCo, MoCu, MoRu, and MoMo, the binary FeRh embedded in NPG was identified as the best catalyst due to its lowest limiting potential (-0.22 V) and high selectivity towards the eNRR. Our results further suggested that the good eNRR catalytic activity of the dispersed FeRh mainly originates from its optimal eNRR intermediates' adsorption/desorption features, obvious suppressing effects on the hydrogen evolution reaction, and great promise for synthesis. Our work not only opens a new door to advance sustainable NH3 production by tailoring the electronic structures of binuclear metal atoms, but also provides deeper insight into the structure-performance relationships of dual sites for eNRR electrocatalysts.
Nitrogenase catalyzes the reduction of an array of small molecules, including N-2 to NH3, by delivering electrons and protons to substrates bound to the active site metal cluster FeMo-cofactor. A challenge in describing the mechanism of nitrogenase-catalyzed reduction reactions is quantifying electron flow through the enzyme to different substrates. In this study, a mediated cyclic voltammetry approach was developed that provides a quantitative analysis of electron flow through nitrogenase. Conditions were optimized to reveal the catalytic reaction rate-limiting step. Analysis of the current response by an electrochemical approach yielded a catalytic rate constant (k(cat)) of 14 s(-1), consistent with earlier studies. The current approach was used to resolve a long-standing conundrum in nitrogenase research, the apparent inhibition of electron flow through nitrogenase with increasing partial pressures of N-2. It was demonstrated using this voltammetric approach in the absence of the reductant dithionite that total electron flow through nitrogenase remains constant up to a N-2 partial pressure of 1 atm.
The development of high-efficient and large-scale non-precious electrocatalysts to improve sluggish reaction kinetics plays a key role in enhancing electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) for ammonia production under mild condition. Herein, Fe3O4 and Fe supported by porous carbon (denoted as Fe/Fe3O4/PC-800) composite with a high specific surface area of 1004.1 m(2) g(-1) was prepared via a simple template method. On one hand, the high surface area of Fe/Fe3O4/PC-800 provides a large area to enhance N-2 adsorption and promote more protons and electrons to accelerate the reaction, thereby greatly improving the dynamics. On the other hand, mesoporous Fe/Fe3O4/PC-800 provides high electrochemically active surface area for promoting the occurrence of catalytic kinetics. As a result, Fe/Fe3O4/PC-800 exhibited significantly enhanced NRR performance with an ammonia yield of 31.15 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and faraday efficiency of 22.26 % at -0.1 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). This study is expected to provide a new strategy for the synthesis of catalysts with large specific area and pave the way for the foundational research in NRR.
The sustainable production of NH3 through an ambient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) requires the ingenious design of efficient electrocatalysts. Herein, plasma-etched Ti2O3 with oxygen vacancies (OV-Ti2O3) is reported as an active and stable electrocatalyst for NRR. The resulting OV-Ti2O3 catalyst exhibits outstanding N-2 fixation performances in 0.1 M HCl with the maximum NH3 yield and faradaic efficiency of up to 37.24 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and 19.29%, respectively. Additionally, a rechargeable aqueous Zn-N-2 battery with an OV-Ti2O3 cathode was assembled to deliver a power density of 1.02 mW cm(-2) and an NH3 yield of 4.3 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1), outperforming reported Zn-N-2 batteries.
The electrochemical transformation of nitrogen (N-2) into valuable ammonia (NH3) is a highly coveted process that poses a formidable challenge owing to the inherent inertness of the N-2 molecule. The creation step in the development of this process is the development of a long-lasting electrocatalyst. Herein, we presented a simple one-step hydrothermal method for assembling MoSe2 nanosheets on multilayer Ti3C2 MXenes (MoSe2/Ti3C2 composite) to serve as a reliable and effective catalyst for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). The present study employs two detection methods, namely, ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) and ion chromatography, to determine the ammonia yield of MoSe2/Ti3C2 composite catalysts. MoSe2/Ti3C2 composites show outstanding NRR activity with a superior NH3 yield rate of 60.87 mu gh(-1)mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.55 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and Faraday efficiency of 9.3% at -0.25 V vs RHE, markedly better than individual MoSe2 or Ti3C2 MXene components. In addition, this composite also has excellent stability and durability during the recycling test. In addition, we have demonstrated the existence of Se vacancies in the catalyst through electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). The density functional theory calculation (DFT) reveals that abundant Se vacancies play a significant role in enhancing the NRR activity by increasing the conductivity and reducing reaction barriers for intermediate formation. This work opens up an avenue for designing MXene-based electrocatalysts by constructing heterostructures for NRR.
Ammonia is an indispensable industrial chemical for fertilizer production and energy carriers. Electro-catalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) shows a promising possibility for converting dinitrogen to ammonia under mild conditions, which is expected to replace the harsh Haber-Bosch process. However, the industrial application of NRR is limited by the low yield and unsatisfactory Faradaic efficiency derived from the poor catalytic activity. Herein, the research progress of reaction principles and possible mechanisms of NRR are summarized, followed by the introduction of conventional ammonia detection methods so as to point out the instructive research directions. Then, the recent advances of different metal-based materials including noble metal and non-noble transition metal-based electrocatalysts for NRR are presented with the corresponding prevailing theoretic calculation results. Additionally, the rational design strategies of various metal-based electrocatalysts are discussed according to the increasing adsorption of N-2, and decreasing activation energy of N-2 reduction reaction, as well as the suppressed hydrogen evolution reaction aiming at enhancing the electrocatalytic performance and Faradaic efficiency. Lastly, the current challenges and future prospects are proposed to shed light on the realization of industrialization. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ammonia (NH3) is considered an important chemical for both agriculture fertilizer and renewable energy. The conventional Haber-Bosh process to produce NH3 is energy intensive and leads to significant CO2 emission. Alternatively, electrochemical synthesis of ammonia (ESA) through the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by using renewable electricity has recently attracted significant attention. Herein, we report a metal-organic framework- derived nitrogen-doped nanoporous carbon as an electrocatalyst for the NRR. It exhibits a remarkable production rate of NH3 up to 3.4x10(-6) mol cm(-2) h(-1) with a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 10.2% at -0.3 V vs. RHE under room temperature and ambient pressure using aqueous 0.1M KOH electrolyte. Increasing the temperature to 60 degrees C further improves production rates to 7.3x10(-6) mol cm(-2) h(-1). The stability of the nitrogendoped carbon electrocatalyst was demonstrated during an 18-h continuous test with constant production rates. First principles calculations were used to elucidate the possible active sites and reaction pathway. The moiety, which consists of three pyridinic N atoms (N-3) adjacent with one carbon vacancy embedded in a carbon layer, is able to strongly adsorb N-2 and further realize N = N triple bond dissociation for the subsequent protonation process. The rate-determining step of the NRR is predicted to be the adsorption and bond activation of N-2 molecule. Increasing overpotentials is favorable for the protonation process during NH3 generation. Further doping Fe into the nitrogen-doped carbon likely blocks the N-3 active sites and facilitates the hydrogen evolution reaction, a strong competitor to the NRR, thus yielding negative effect on ammonia production. This work provides a new insight into the rational design and synthesis of nitrogen-doped and defect-rich carbon as efficient NRR catalysts for NH3 synthesis at ambient conditions.
A highly active electrode is a prerequisite to accelerate the sluggish nitrogen reduction in the otherwise promising molten alkali-metal chloride (LiCl-KCl-CsCl)-based ammonia synthesis process. In this study, four 3d metals, i.e., Ti, Fe, Co, and Ni, were selected and evaluated as candidate electrode materials. The electrochemical performance of each material was evaluated using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) and chronoamperometry (CA). The activity in nitrogen reduction, described in terms of effective nitrogen reduction current, was in the order of Co > Ni > Fe > Ti. The variation in performance was ascribed to a synergetic relation between the electrical resistivity and wettability of the materials, indicating that both factors must be considered in selecting electrode materials, particularly in a molten-type system. Copyright (C) 2015, Hydrogen Energy Publications, LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) under ambient conditions is considered as a promising process to produce ammonia. Towards highly efficient catalysts, here an optimized one-step pyrolysis strategy was tailored to design yolk-shell microcages (YS Co@C/BLCNTs), consisting of Co nanocrystals encapsulated in N-doped carbon framework and bridged by bamboo-like carbon nanotubes (BLCNTs). The cavity created between yolk and shell not only served as a micro-bag to store the reactant N-2 and enhance its dissolution, but also induced a cage effect to confine the diffusion of reaction intermediate, hence making the reaction proceed in the direction of producing NH3. This catalyst displayed excellent catalytic activities for ENRR: a high NH3 yield of 12.87 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1) at a high faradaic efficiency of 20.7 % at -0.45 V (vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE). After 5 cycles of consecutive ENRR process, the NH3 yield rate was 11.29 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1), indicating the excellent electrocatalytic stability. These results provide a structural engineering for ENRR catalyst with doped N, cooperating with non-precious metal to activate the inert triple bond of N-2 and achieve NH3 fixation.
Electrocatalytic reduction of nitrogen (N-2) is considered as a simple, green, and sustainable method for producing ammonia (NH3). Inspired by the recent experimental synthesis of a two-dimensional intrinsically conductive Ni-based covalent organic framework (Mirica et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2019, 141, 11929-11937), here, on the basis of density functional theory (DFT), we explore the electrocatalytic performance of a series of stable and conductive two-dimensional (2D) TM-based covalent organic frameworks (TM-COFs, TM = Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, W, Ir, Pt, and Au, respectively) toward the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR), which are constructed by the robust linkage between 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octaamino-metallophthalocyanine and pyrene-4,5,9,10-tetraone. The computational results show that the 2D conductive Mo-COF exhibits the highest electrocatalytic performance for N-2 fixation with a very low overpotential of 0.16 V among the 20 candidates, and can effectively inhibit the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). The outstanding NRR activity and selectivity of the Mo-COF stem from its inherent superiorities, such as excellent electrical conductivity, significant positive charge and large spin moment on the Mo atom, and appropriate adsorption strength for NRR species. This work will promote more experimental research in this field to discover more highly active COF-based catalysts for advancing sustainable NH3 production.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient temperature and pressure holds a great promise for NH3 production while it is still impeded by the low active site density and sluggish kinetics, leading to a low product yield rate. In this work, bimodal nanoporous PdCu alloys that have three-dimensional hierarchical interconnected porous network and tailored Pd/Cu atomic ratios are designed and used for electro-catalytic NRR with high NH3 yield rate at room temperature and atmosphere pressure. The Pd3Cu1 alloy that has large surface area for high active site density, bimodal porous structure for efficient reactant accessibility as well as desired electronic structure for restrained hydrogen evolution reaction exhibits a high NH3 yield rate of 39.9 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1), which is among the highest values for recently reported NRR electrocatalysts with high loading amount. Even at a low overpotential of -0.15 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE), the alloy can still deliver a NRR yield rate of more than 10 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). Moreover, structural integrity of the Pd3Cu1 alloy makes it a highly stable NRR electrocatalyst that keeps 100% of its original activity after 18 h operation, retaining its great potential for promising NRR electrocatalysis. The synergistic combination of bimodal nanoporous structure and alloy strategy could be used to design efficient catalysts for a wide range of reactions.
Electrochemical reduction provides a promising and sustainable technology for ammonia synthesis under ambient conditions. At the moment, the majority of research is focused on developing catalysts with high yield and high faradaic efficiency. However, the characteristics of mass transportation and electrokinetics of the reactor are seldom discussed. In this study, a mathematical model was developed that combined mass transportation, charge migration, and electrode kinetics. The model was validated by using experimental data with an average error of 4.7%. With the established theoretical model, the significant physical and chemical phenomena inside the reactor were discussed in detail. Effects of structural and operating parameters including applied potential, N-2 concentration of feed gas, electrolyte concentration, width of the electrolyte channel, thickness of the catalyst layer, and electrolyte flow rate were investigated. The sensitivities of different parameters were further evaluated. It is believed that the work could provide meaningful guidance for the reactor design and scale-up strategy of electrochemical reduction of the N-2-to-NH3 process.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis via the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has received abundant attention, but a high nitrogen activation barrier and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) heavily limit its performance. Herein, mesoporous Rh-Te alloy films directly grown on carbon paper (mRhTe/CP) are synthesized via a micelle-assisted electrodeposition method. mRhTe/CP demonstrates superior NRR performance, with an NH3 yield of 41.7 & mu;g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a Faraday efficiency of 20.4%. The improved NRR performance is attributed to an interconnected porous structure that provides ample active sites for the reaction and the introduction of Te that enhances nitrogen adsorption energy and suppresses the HER simultaneously. The work reports a convenient route for the deliberate synthesis of self-supporting mesoporous metal-metalloid alloy nanomaterials for nitrogen electroreduction to ammonia.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) to ammonia (NH3) has been recognized as an effective, carbon-neutral, and great-potential strategy for ammonia production. However, the conversion efficiency and selectivity of eNRR still face significant challenges due to the slow transfer kinetics and lack of effective N2 adsorption and activation sites in this process. Herein, we designed and fabricated defect-rich TiO2 nanosheets furnished with oxygen vacancies (OVs) and Au nanoparticles (Au/TiO2-x) as the elec-trocatalyst for efficient N2-fixing. The experimental results demonstrate that OVs act as active sites, which enable efficient chemisorption and activation of N2 molecules. The Au nanoparticles loaded on the OVs-rich TiO2 nanosheets not only accelerate charge transfer but also change the local electronic structure, thus enhancing N2 adsorption and activation. In this work, the optimal Au/TiO2-x electrocata-lyst displays a considerable NH3 yield activity of 12.5 lg h-1 mgcat.-1 and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 10.2 % at-0.40 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). More importantly, the Au/TiO2-x exhibits a stable N2- fixing activity in cycling and it persists even after 80 h of consecutive electrolysis. Density functional the-ory (DFT) calculations reveal that the OVs serve as the active sites in TiO2, while Au nanoparticles are cru-cial for improving N2 chemisorption and lowering the reaction energy barrier by facilitating the charge transfer for eNRR with a distal hydrogenation pathway. This research offers a rational catalytic site design for modulating charge transfer of active sites on metal-supported defective catalysts to boost N2 elec-troreduction to NH3. (c) 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a highly attractive route for the synthesis of ammonia. However, the efficiency of the electrocatalytic NRR remains low because of the lack of effective catalyst. Here we use density functional theory (DFT) to investigate the effect of alloying Cu with Mn on NRR performance, showing that the incorporation of Mn into Cu structure can greatly improve the NRR performance. Based on the DFT results, we employ a dealloying method to prepare nanoporous CuMn (np-CuMn) alloy as the electrocatalyst for NRR. Thanks to the synergy between Cu and Mn and the nanoporous structure, the as-prepared np-CuMn alloy exhibits a high ammonia yield rate of 28.9 mu g h-1 cm- 2 with a Faradaic efficiency of 9.83% at -0.3 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode under ambient conditions. Both values are higher than those obtained for most of the reported noble metal catalysts under similar conditions. Our findings offer an opportunity to design high performance NRR catalyst for ammonia synthesis.
NH3, synthesized by the Haber-Bosch process, is essential for fertilisers in order to feed the world's growing population, however, it causes massive energy consumption and generates large amounts of greenhouse gases. Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions is highly desirable for energy-efficient and sustainable NH3 production but this requires an efficient catalyst. In this work, we report a defect-rich fluorographene nanosheet synthesised via fluorination of graphene for NRR electrocatalysis. Such an electrocatalyst shows an NH3 formation rate of 9.3 g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 4.2% at -0.7 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the fluorination of graphene induces defects, which not only provide reaction sites for NRR but effectively activate N-2 molecules.
( )Although electrocatalytic N-2 fixation has been regarded as a promising alternative strategy to the current Haber-Bosch technique for ammonia synthesis, it still remains a great challenge to develop low-cost and high-efficiency eletrocatalysts with high catalytic activity and good selectivity. Here, we report the fabrication of a free-standing 3D hybrid electrode by in situ growth of N-doped carbon-coated gamma-Fe2O3 nanoparticles supported on carbon fabric (gamma-Fe2O3-NC/CF), which manifests a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 12.28% and a considerable ammonia yield of 11.7 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2). Systematic characterization coupled with comprehensive electrochemical studies imply that the cation vacancies on the surface of gamma-Fe2O3-NC/CF generated during the electrochemical activation process majorly contribute to the enhanced electrocatalytic activity for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR).
Stimulated by the growing demand for sustainable and/or economical distributed ammonia synthesis, the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction has attracted considerable interest. The nitrogen-containing impurities in commercial metal-based nitrogen reduction reaction catalysts such as metal oxides and metallic irons have, however, been overlooked. Herein we report the presence of nitrogen-containing species in NOx- or nitrides at substantial levels revealed from many commercial catalysts. We call attention to the necessity to screen the NOx-/nitrides impurities in commercial catalysts, as the nitrogen impurities are not commonly listed in vendors' assay documents. A simple two-step procedure (alkaline/acidic treatment followed by HPLC/UV-vis analysis) is recommended as a reliable protocol for screening NOx-/nitrides impurities in catalyst materials. A case analysis is also carried out on the previously reported H2O-NaOH-KOH system with both N-15-isotopic labelling and nitrogen elemental tracking, reassigning the true nitrogen source of the electrochemically produced NH3 from gaseous N-2 to nitrogen-containing impurities in catalysts.
Electrochemical reduction of nitrogen to ammonia provides an alternative to the energy- and capital-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, limited progress has been made to date, as most catalysts lack efficient activity for nitrogen fixation. Here, we report Fe nanodot-decorated MoS2 nanosheets on carbon cloth as an efficient and flexible electrode for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions. The strong electronic interaction between Fe and MoS2 plays a key role in boosting the NRR. Remarkably, the as-obtained Fe-MoS2/CC electrode shows outstanding electrochemical NRR performance with an average NH3 yield of 12.5 mu g h(-1) cm(-2) and a faradaic efficiency of 10.8% at -0.1 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode. Theoretical and experimental evidence verifies that the high NRR activity originates from the synergistic effect between the Fe nanodots and MoS2 nanosheets. Additionally, the electrode also possesses flexibility and long-term stability, providing a potential approach for integration into practical devices.
Exploring cost-effective and highly active electrocatalysts is of great significance for sustainable electrochemical NH3 synthesis. Palladium (Pd)-based catalysts have been unanimously considered as one of the most efficient catalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Herein, self-supported mesoporous Pd film with partial oxidation on Ni foam (mPd-PdO/NF) was synthesized through the micelle-assisted chemical replacement method coupled with air oxidation under 260 degrees C, and the mPd-PdO/NF electrocatalyst exhibited superior NRR performance with the maximum values of r (NH3) (24.8 mg h(-1) mg(cat.) (-1)) and FE (16.64%) were obtained at -0.1 V, relative to the single counterparts (mPd/NF and mPdO/NF). It is proposed that both metallic Pd and its oxide domains when co-existing with a phase boundary between them can facilitate nitrogen activation and hydrogenation, resulting in an enhanced NRR performance. This work provides an inspiring strategy for the rational design of highly active and durable metal-metal-oxide nanoarchitectonics for ammonia electrosynthesis.
Electrochemical reduction has been regarded as a sustainable strategy to tackle energy-intensive operations by the Haber-Bosch process achieving catalytic conversion of N-2 to NH3 under mild conditions. However, the challenge of N-2 electroconversion emphasizes the requirement of efficient electrocatalysts. In this paper, we report the development of porous bromide-derived Ag film (BD-Ag/AF) as an efficient electrocatalyst for N-2 reduction reaction. During electrochemical test, Br- anions are released and adsorbed onto the surfaces of the electrode, suppressing hydrogen evolution reaction. Such BD-Ag/AF shows a high Faradaic efficiency of 7.36% at -0.6 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4, which is higher than that (0.38%) of porous Ag film without Br- anions. Moreover, it exhibits excellent long-term electrochemical durability.
In this work, an octahedral-shaped iron nanocluster (NC) electrocatalyst has been modeled to examine the pathways of electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) and analyze the catalytic activity over the (110) surface. The Heyrovsky-type associative and dissociative NRR mechanisms on the (110) facet and edge of the NC are systematically elucidated by calculating reaction free energies for all the possible elementary reaction steps in NRR. Our results show that the most of the NRR intermediates (*N-2, *N2H, *N2H2, *N, *NH, *NH2, and *NH3) bind weakly on different sites of the NC in comparison to that on the periodic Fe(110) surface. Importantly, the reaction free energy change for the potential determining step (PDS) in the distal associative mechanism with the formation of *NNH on the NC facet is lower than the edge of NC and periodic Fe(110) surface. Our study also indicates that the PDS (*NH2 formation) associated with the periodic Fe(110) surface is no longer the same as the reaction is catalyzed by the NC. The calculated value of working potential is observed lower for Fe-85 NC in comparison to that of the periodic Fe(110) surface. Furthermore, the current density plot indicates that the NC shows less hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) activity compared to other considered Fe based systems. Apart from the working potential study, the positive shift of dissolution potential has also been considered for dissolution behavior of Fe from the NC with respect to surface, confirming its stability in an electrochemical environment. The Fe-85 NC electrocatalyst possess quite a low overpotential of 0.29 V for NRR with reduced HER activity, which is further lower compared to that of the well-established Re(111) and enhanced stability toward Fe dissolution in comparison to that of the periodic Fe(110) surface. Therefore, such an NC system may perform as an efficient catalyst for an electrochemical NRR.
Achieving an effective nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under mild conditions is a great challenge for industrial ammonia synthesis. NRR is often accompanied by a competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), which causes an extremely low Faraday efficiency. We systematically investigated the NRR reactivity of atom-pair catalysts (APCs) formed by 20 transition metal (TM) elements supported by N-doped graphene via three reaction pathways. By analyzing the correlation among the limiting potential, Gibbs free energy, and d-band center, we evaluated the activity trends of the TM APCs. Our computations revealed that the enzymatic pathway is the most suitable reaction pathway for the TM APCs, and the intrinsic activity trend of these APCs can be determined by the d-band center-based descriptor, which has a simple linear correlation with the bonding/antibonding orbital population. In addition, the NRR APCs with excellent performance have been screened out through selective analysis of the competing HER in the electrocatalytic NRR process.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) arises as a potential substitute for the Haber-Bosch approach operated under harsh conditions. Despite numerous research studies on the ENRR, further progress encounters the bottleneck of tough dynamics due to the difficulties in nitrogen activation or protonation. To surmount the obstacle, a simple and effective strategy of iron surface implantation is recommended to modulate the electronic structure of copper electrodeposited on carbon paper for promoting the NRR activity. Owing to iron surface implantation, the Fe/Cu catalyst attains a NH3 yield rate of 6.8 +/- 0.4 mg/h/cm and a desirable Faradaic efficiency of 16.0 +/- 1.1% in an alkaline electrolyte of 0.1 M KOH. The theoretical calculation results suggest that the implantation of iron can enhance nitrogen adsorption, weaken the N-N s bond, and lower the energy barrier of the potential determining step to boost the NRR process. This work supplies a new route on designing efficient catalysts for ENRR under ambient conditions.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A computational approach to judiciously predict high-entropy alloys (HEAs) as an efficient and sustainable material class for the electrochemical reduction of nitrogen is here presented. The approach employs density functional theory (DFT), adsorption energies of N atoms and N2 molecules as descriptors of the catalytic activity and deep neural networks. A probabilistic approach to quantifying the activity of HEA catalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is described, where catalyst elements and concentration are optimized to increase the probability of specific atomic arrangements on the surfaces. The approach provides key features for the effective filtering of HEA candidates without the need for time-consuming calculations. The relationships between activity and selectivity, which correlate with the averaged valence electron concentration and averaged electronegativity of the reference HEA catalyst, are analyzed in terms of sufficient interaction for sustained reactions and, at the same time, for the release of the active site. As a result, a complete list of 3000 HEAs consisting of quinary components of the elements Mo, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn are reported together with their metrics to rank them from the most likely to the least likely active catalysts for NRR in gas diffusion electrodes, or for the case where non-aqueous electrolytes are utilized to suppress the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. Moreover, the energetic landscape of the electrochemical NRR transformations are computed and compared to the case of Fe. The study also analyses and discusses how the results would translate to liquid-solid reactions in aqueous electrochemical cells, further affected by changes in properties upon hydroxylation, oxygen, hydrogen, and water coverages.
Current artificial NH3 synthesis relies heavily on the Haber-Bosch process that involves enormous energy consumption and huge CO2 emission. The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) offers an ecofriendly and sustainable alternative but demands cost-effective and efficient NRR electrocatalysts. Herein, NiO nanodots nm) supported on graphene (NiO/G) were developed as a high-performance NRR electrocatalyst at ambient conditions. Electrochemical tests indicated that the NiO/G exhibited a high NH3 yield (18.6 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)) and Faradaic efficiency (7.8%) at -0.7 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode, outperforming the most reported NRR electrocatalysts. Experimental and density functional theory (DFT) results revealed that NiO was the dominating active center, and nanodot structure enabled the NiO to expose more active sites. DFT results further demonstrated that the distal associative route was the preferable NRR pathway with *N-2 -> *NNH being the rate-determining step.
To search excellent catalyst for electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is of great importance for the alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. Herein, based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we systematically investigated the catalytic mechanism of eNRR on different-proportions high-entropy alloy (HEA) FeCoNiCuPd. The calculation of formation energy shown the dependence of structural stability on the ratio of constituents. Meanwhile, it is found that Ni-0.3(FeCoCuPd)(0.175) features high thermal stability. The Ni-0.3(FeCoCuPd)(0.175 )with exposed crystal plane (111) exhibited excellent performance of eNRR with the lowest overpotential of 0.34 eV. Catalytically kinetic results demonstrated that Ni-0.3(FeCoCuPd)(0.175 )follows the distal reaction pathway and the rate-determining step (RDS) was found to be *N-2 -> *NNH with the barrier of 0.50 eV. Relative to the secondary reaction of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), such catalyst achieves the excellent selectivity of 99%. Detailed electronical calculations results indicated the connection between catalytic activity and d-band center, shedding light on the critical role of Ni element ratio in the catalytic performance.
Electrochemical N-2 fixation using renewable electricity in water provides a renewable route for artificial NH3 synthesis, whereas developing active and selective catalysts is highly necessary for an efficient N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) process. In this work, we report ultrasmall iridium nanoparticles on reduced graphene oxide (Ir/RGO) as an effective NRR electrocatalyst, achieving an NH3 yield of 55.6 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with a faradaic efficiency of 15.3% at -0.3 V (RHE), outperforming most previously reported catalysts. Density functional theory calculations reveal that Ir is active for the NRR, while the RGO can further boost the NRR activity of supported Ir by imparting the enriched electrons on Ir that induce the upshift of the d-band center, resulting in enhanced N-2 adsorption and a decreased energy barrier for the potential-determining step.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation is considered a promising approach to achieve NH3 production. However, due to the chemical inertness of nitrogen, it is necessary to develop efficient catalysts to facilitate the process of nitrogen reduction. Here, molybdenum carbide nanodots embedded in ultrathin carbon nanosheets (Mo2C/C) are developed to serve as a catalyst candidate for highly efficient and robust N-2 fixation through an electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). The as-synthesized Mo2C/C nanosheets show excellent catalytic performance with a high NH3 yield rate (11.3 mu g h(-1) mg(Mo2C)(-1)) and Faradic efficiency (7.8%) for NRR under ambient conditions. More importantly, the isotopic experiments using N-15(2) as a nitrogen source confirm that the synthesized ammonia is derived from the direct supply of nitrogen. This result also demonstrates the possibility of high-efficiency nitrogen reduction even though accompanied with vigorous hydrogen evolution.
Electrochemical reduction of N-2 to NH3 under ambient conditions can provide an alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for distributed NH3 production that can be powered by renewable electricity. The major challenge for realizing such a process is to develop efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (N2RR), as typical catalysts show a low activity and selectivity due to the barrier for N-2 activation and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Here we report an Fe/Fe3O4 catalyst for ambient electrochemical NH3 synthesis, which was prepared by oxidizing an Fe foil at 300 degrees C followed by in situ electrochemical reduction. The Fe/Fe3O4 catalyst exhibits a Faradaic efficiency of 8.29% for NH3 production at -0.3 V vs the reversible hydrogen electrode in phosphate buffer solution, which is around 120 times higher than that of the original Fe foil. The high selectivity is enabled by an enhancement of the intrinsic (surface-area-normalized) N2RR activity by up to 9-fold as well as an effective suppression of the HER activity. The N2RR selectivity of the Fe/Fe3O4 catalyst is also higher than that of Fe, Fe3O4, and Fe2O3 nanoparticles, suggesting Fe/Fe oxide composite to be an efficient catalyst for ambient electrochemical NH3 synthesis.
Development of high-performance and eco-friendly electrocatalysts for N2 reduction to NH3 is receiving considerable attention. Here the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) on the newly-reported 2D-Fe2C12 materials has been intensively investigated using density functional theory (DFT). We found that the 2D-Fe2C12 monolayer with atomically dispersed Fe atoms on the same side, denoted as 1s-Fe2C12, possessing high activity and selec-tivity toward NRR due to the cooperative interaction of two adjacent individual Fe active sites. The NRR channel starting from the bridge-on adsorbed configuration *N-*N has a low onset potential of-0.58 V, and this value could be further reduced to-0.40 V by including the solvation effect. The relatively large energy differences of -0.3 eV for triangle G(*N-2)-triangle G(*H) and the almost neutral value for triangle G(*H)-triangle G(*N2 ->*N-*NH) guarantee the high selectivity for NRR on 1s-Fe2C12. These findings suggest that 1s-Fe2C12 should have great potential for the design of highly efficient electrocatalysts for NRR.
Electrosynthesis of NH3 from N-2 addresses the need for renewable electricity storage and provides a promising alternative to the HaberBosch process. Unfortunately, it is hindered by sluggish kinetics and low faradaic efficiency (FE) due to the strong N N triple bond and competing proton reduction. Herein, we propose that the surface engineering of a CoP nanoarray supported on a titanium mesh using hydrophobic octadecanethiol (C18@CoP/TM) is an effective strategy to enhance the electrocatalytic activity of the CoP nanoarray supported on a titanium mesh for ambient N-2-to-NH3 conversion. Such C18@CoP/TM offers an NH3 yield of 1.44 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and a FE of 14.03% in 0.1 M Na2SO4, surpassing its CoP/TM counterpart (0.783 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2), 5.83%). Moreover, C18@CoP/TM also shows steady NH3 yield and FE in a six-cycle test with high durability. Density functional theory calculations reveal that modifying CoP with a C18 layer leads to a regulated surface electronic structure, which further promotes the catalytic formation of NH3.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), an alternative method of nitrogen fixation and conversion under ambient conditions, represents a promising strategy for tackling the energy-intensive issue. The design of high-performance electrocatalysts is one of the key issues to realizing the application of NRR, but most of the current catalysts rely on the use of crystalline materials, and shortcomings such as a limited number of catalytic active sites and sluggish reaction kinetics arise. Herein, an amorphous metal oxide catalyst H-CrOx/C-550 with hierarchically porous structure is constructed, which shows superior electrocatalytic performance toward NRR under ambient conditions (yield of 19.10 mu g h(-1) Mg-cat(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 1.4% at -0.7 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode, higher than that of crystalline Cr2O3 and solid counterparts). Notably, the amorphous metal oxide obtained by controlled pyrolysis of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) possess abundant unsaturated catalytic sites and optimized conductivity due to the controllable degree of metal-oxygen bond reconstruction and the doping of carbon materials derived from organic ligands. This work demonstrates MOF-derived porous amorphous materials as a viable alternative to current electrocatalysts for NH3 synthesis at ambient conditions.
As an environmentally friendly and sustainable method for ammonia synthesis, nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by electrocatalysis possesses several advantages, including viability under mild conditions, abundant reaction raw materials and low energy consumption, and thus it is supposed to be a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, the stable N=N bonds in the nitrogen (N-2) and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) put harsh requirements on catalysts. In this study, the CoS/MoS2 heterojunction catalyst where CoS nanoparticles are anchored on the MoS2 nanosheets is reported as a high-efficiency NRR catalyst. The catalysts have high NH3 yield (23.23 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)), reasonable faradaic efficiency (FE, 12.63%) and long-term electrochemical stability under -0.45 V vs. RHE in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, whose performance is better than MoS2 and CoS. The TPV results show rapid interfacial electron transfer and good conductivity of the material, and the DFT calculation reveals that the CoS attached to the (100) plane effectively enhances N-2 adsorption and catalysis performance.
In this work, electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) on metallic Co@N-doped carbon (NC) (Co@NC) were investigated. The Co@NC catalysts obtained via pyrolysis of a metal-organic framework precursor (ZIF-67) showed high Faraday efficiency under ambient conditions in neutral electrolytes. At -0.9 V versus Ag/AgCl, the Faraday efficiency of Co@NC achieved as high as 21.79%, surpassing most of reported catalysts under comparable conditions, while the NH3 yield rate of Co@NC reached 1.57 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) at the same potential. This work demonstrated that Co@NC had outstanding electrocatalytic performance for NRR. Thus it was a promising transition-metal-based catalyst in electrochemical ammonia synthesis. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
As an alternative to the conventional Haber-Bosch process for NH3 synthesis that operates under harsh conditions, an electrochemical process has recently been pursued. Here, using a joint experiment-density functional calculation approach, we determine the activity trend of four transition metals (TMs) (Fe, Ru, Rh, and Pd) for N-2 reduction to NH3: Fe > Ru > Pd > Rh, where the protonation step of *N-2 to form *N2H (* indicates surface sites) is a potential determining step (PDS). The activity trend of the electrocatalysts is determined by the ability of the adsorbate (*N-2 ) over the catalyst surfaces to easily obtain electrons at the PDS with an assumption of a scaling relationship between the activation energy barrier and the free energy difference. In electronic structures, the ability can be estimated by the energy difference between the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the adsorbed N-2 on the TM surfaces and the fermi energy (E-F). For early TMs (e.g., Sc and Ti) where the PDS is *NH protonation reaction to form *NH2, the activity of the TMs can be similarly explained with an electronic structural feature that is the energy difference between the LUMO of the *NH and the E-F. Based on the origin, we additionally consider 10 TMs (Ni, Cr, Mn, Co, Cu, Mo, Ag, W, Pt, and Au) and then determine the activity trend of the total 16 diverse TMs for NH3 synthesis. We expect that this work could pave the way to novel alloy catalysts with a high activity for electrochemical NH3 synthesis.
NH3 is an important raw material for a variety of chemicals, but also an important carbon-free energy carrier. Currently, NH3 synthesis mainly relies on Habor-Bosch method with high energy consumption, high pollution and low efficiency. So it is urgent to develop a green process for NH3 synthesis. The electrochemical NH3 synthesis can be carried out under ambient conditions. Therefore, it is very important to find electrocatalysts with good stability, high activity and excellent selectivity. Here, we have designed homonuclear transition metal (TM = Fe, Co, Ni) clusters catalyst supported on graphene (TM3 @Gra) as electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). The mechanism of electrocatalytic NRR on TM3 @Gra was investigated. The Fe3 @Gra, Co3 @Gra, and Ni3 @Gra showed high catalytic activity with corresponding limiting potential of -0.60, -0.64 and -0.45 V, respectively. Finally, the selectivity and thermal stability analysis confirmed that TM3 @Gra were the ideal NRR electrocatalysts. We hope that the results of this study will facilitate the design and development of NRR catalysts and provide theoretical reference for the rational design of cluster catalysts.
Industrial ammonia production depends heavily on the traditional Haber-Bosch method at the expense of CO2 emissions and large energy consumptions. Artificial fixation of nitrogen to ammonia is therefore regarded as a promising path to yield ammonia in energy-saving conditions. However, a competent electrocatalyst is highly desired, owing to the extremely stable bond of N N. In this work, we report Fe-2(MoO4)(3) nanoparticles as a non-noble-metal electrocatalyst, inspired by nitrogenase enzymes for electrochemically converting nitrogen into ammonia, which achieves a Faradic efficiency of 9.1% and an excellent NH3 yield of 18.16 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat in 0.1 M sodium sulfate at -0.6 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode. Also, it has a better ammonia yield rate of 20.09 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat in 0.1 M hydrochloric acid. Moreover, this noble-metal-free catalyst exhibits a unique reaction process selectivity and stability compared with the other catalysts working in harsh conditions, The specific reaction processes are analyzed by density functional theoretical calculations to gain insights into the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by this catalyst.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) has long been regarded as a promising process to generate NH3 under ambient conditions. Therefore, developing cost-effective and high-performance non-noble-metal catalysts for NRR is highly desirable. Inspired by the biological nitrogenase structure, we here designed and synthesized a catalyst with iron-molybdenum sub-nanoclusters and single atoms on porous nitrogen-doped carbon (FeMo/NC). The catalyst features porous structure beneficial to active site exposure and accessibility to electrolyte as well as FeMo sub-nanoclusters and single atoms enabling to activate N-2 molecular. In situ near-ambient pressure X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy tests reveal that during the process from vacuum to nitrogen saturation, N-2 was close to, adsorbed on and interacted with Fe and Mo in FeMo/NC. The Fe and Mo through electron transfer play a key role in activating the N-2 molecules. Therefore, when tested for NRR, FeMo/NC achieves the maximum Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 11.8 +/- 0.8% at -0.25 V and NH3 yield rate of 26.5 +/- 0.8 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.3 V in neutral electrolyte. Moreover, the catalyst exhibits ignorable variations in the FE and a slight decrease in current density for 100,000 s. This work develops a non-precious bimetallic electrocatalyst with synergetic effect capability for efficient NH3 production and provides a guideline for the design of efficient and robust catalysts with coexistence of sub-nanoclusters and single atoms.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) provides a sustainable alternative to the Haber-Bosch process for ammonia (NH3) production. Transition metal catalysts have poor NRR performance due to the highly competitive hydrogen evolution reaction and the scaling relation between inert dinitrogen (N-2) and other reaction intermediates. Owing to the enhanced active sites and the anomalous quantum size effect, single-atom catalysts (SACs) have been proven to be effective in overcoming these limitations. Inspired by our understanding of metal- sulfur (M-S) linkages in the nitrogenase enzyme, we have modulated the electronic structure of iron by tethering to sulfur in a mesoporous carbon matrix. Theoretical calculations identified enhanced electron transfer and flexible coordination as important features of Fe-S-C linkages responsible for the improved NRR performance, which is achieved due to enhanced N-2 interaction with localized charge density sites formed by Fe-S-C linkages. A high faradaic efficiency (6.1 +/- 0.9%) with an improved rate of NH3 formation (8.8 +/- 1.3 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)) is obtained on the best-performing sample at -0.1 V versus RHE. Our work reveals the importance of M-S linkages for improved NRR performance and provides a strategy for the rational catalyst design.
Developing efficient and stable electrocatalysts for ammonia synthesis via the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is essential for the Earth's nitrogen cycle. Herein, a palladium nanocrystals anchored carbon fibers (PdNCs@CNFs) composite was prepared via electrospinning and carbonization processes. X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) characterization studies show that the as-prepared Pd grains are homogeneously anchored on the outer/inner section of the carbon nanofibers. Benefiting from the sufficient exposure and stress effect of active sites, the resultant PdNCs@CNFs achieves a high Faraday efficiency of similar to 14.8% with a current density of 0.028 mA cm(-2) at -0.2 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, surpassing those of many catalysts previously reported. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the rationality of the distal associative mechanism on PdNCs@CNFs and Pd nanocrystals on the surface of PdNCs@CNFs is more favorable for nitrogen (N-2) molecule adsorption and polarization.
Catalytic reduction of molecular dinitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) is one of the most important and challenging industrial reactions. Electrochemical reduction is considered as an energy-saving technology for artificial ambient nitrogen fixation, which is emerging as an optimal potential sustainable strategy to substitute for the Haber-Bosch process. However, this process demands efficient catalysts for the N(2)reduction reaction (NRR). Here, by means of first-principles calculations, we systematically explored the potential electrocatalytic performance of single transition metal atoms (Pd, Ag, Rh, Cu, Ti, Mo, Mn, Zn, Fe, Co, Ru, and Pt) embedded in monolayer defective boron phosphide (TMs/BP) monolayer with a phosphorus monovacancy for ambient NH(3)production. Among them, the Mo/BP exhibits the best catalytic performance for ambient reduction of N(2)through the typical enzymatic and consecutive reaction pathways with an activation barrier of 0.68 eV, indicating that Mo/BP is an efficient catalyst for N(2)fixation. We believe that this work could provide a new avenue of ambient NH(3)synthesis by using the designed single-atom electrocatalysts.
The photo-/electrocatal)rt nitrogen reduction reaction. (NRR) is an up and coming method for sustainable NH3 Production, however, its Practical application is impeded by poor Faradaic efficiency originating fromthe competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the inert N equivalent to N triple bond activation. In this work, we put forth a method to boost NRR through construction of donor-acceptor couples of dual-metal sites. The synergistic effect of dual active sites can potentially break the metal-based activity benchmark toward efficient NRR. By systematically evaluating the stability, activity, and selectivity of 28 heteronuclear dual-atom catalysts (DACs) of M1M2/g-C3N4 candidates, FeMo/g-C3N4 is screened out as an effective electrocatalyst for NRR with a particularly low limiting potential of -0.23 V for NRR and a rather high potential of -0.79 V for HER. Meanwhile, TiMo/g-C3N4, NiMo/g-C3N4, and MoW/g-C3N4 with suitable band edge positions and visible light absorption can be applied to NRR as photocatalysts. The excellent catalytic activity is attributed to the tunable composition of metal dimers, which play an important role in modulating the binding strength of the target intermediates. This work may pave a new way for the rational design of heteronuclear DACs with high activity and stability for NRR which may also apply to other reactions.
Efforts have been devoted to achieving a highly efficient artificial synthesis of ammonia (NH3). Reported herein is a novel Fe-MoS(2)catalyst with Fe atomically dispersed onto MoS(2)nanosheets, imitating natural nitrogenase, to boost N(2)electroreduction into NH(3)at room temperature. The Fe-MoS(2)nanosheets exhibited a faradic efficiency of 18.8 % with a yield rate of 8.63 mu gNH3 mg(cat.)(-1) h(-1)for NH(3)at -0.3 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode. The mechanism study revealed that the electroreduction of N(2)was promoted and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction was suppressed by decorating the edge sites of S in MoS(2)with the atomically dispersed Fe, resulting in high catalytic performance for the electroreduction of N(2)into NH3. This work provides new ideas for the design of catalysts for N(2)electroreduction and strengthens the understanding about N(2)activation over Mo-based catalysts.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) offers a carbon-neutral process to fix nitrogen into ammonia, but its feasibility depends on the development of highly efficient electrocatalysts. Herein, we report that Fe ion grafted on MoO3 nanorods synthesized by an impregnation technique can efficiently enhance the electron harvesting ability and the selectivity of H+ during the NRR process in neutral electrolyte. In 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution, the electrocatalyst exhibited a remarkable NRR activity with an NH3 yield of 9.66 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 13.1%, far outperforming the ungrafted MnO3. Density functional theory calculations revealed that the Fe sites are major activation centers along the alternating pathway. (C) 2021 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
As the only carbon-free energy carrier without CO2 emission upon decomposition, ammonia is an ideal storage medium for H2. However, the current low efficiency of ammonia synthesis is a main challenge on intermediate-temperature proton-conducting electrochemical cells. Herein, we develop a novel non-precious cathode catalyst consisting of Fe nanoparticles loaded on two-dimensional MXene nanosheets (Fe@MXene) that can achieve a high Faradaic efficiency of 8.4% and an NH3 yield of 8.24 x 10-9 mol. s-1.cm-2 on an anode-supported Ba0.95Ce0.6Tb0.1Y0.2Zr0.1O3-d-based electrolyte. The resultant catalyst with high specific surface area and catalytic active sites is beneficial to N2 reduction, resulting from the effective activation of N2 molecules imposed by the transported protons. The mechanism of catalytic NRR reveals that Fe@MXene catalyst can increase the elec-trocatalytic efficiency because of the improvement in the reaction rate constant. These show a promising catalyst of Fe@MXene for N2 reduction reaction using intermediate-temperature proton-conducting solid oxide cell.(c) 2023 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) to generate ammonium is a promising renewable technology for nitrogen cycling. Engineering the composition and surface states of an electrocatalyst is critical to improve the intrinsic NRR performance. Here, a facile preparation of Ni nanoparticles (NPs) loaded on V4C3Tx MXene (denoted as Ni@MX) as a highly efficient NRR electrocatalyst is reported. Remarkably, the Ni@MX nanocomposite presents an ammonia yield rate of 21.29 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) at 0.2 mA cm(-2). The presented NRR activity is considerably higher than that of the recently reported MXene derivatives and is even comparable to that of the noble-metal-based electrocatalysts. Combined with various characterization methods and the density functional theory (DFT) simulation, we propose that the improved NRR activity was ascribed to a synergistic NRR route by Ni sites in the nanoparticles and the surface O vacancy of V4C3Tx MXene. Given the remarkable improvement of NRR activity on the MXene-based nanocomposites, this work demonstrates the critical role of MXene and its derivatives with surface modification as electrocatalysts.
The design and development of efficient catalysts for electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) under ambient conditions are critical for the alternative ammonia (NH3) synthesis from N-2 and H2O, wherein iron-based electrocatalysts exhibit outstanding NH3 formation rate and Faradaic efficiency (FE). Here, the synthesis of porous and positively charged iron oxyhydroxide nanosheets by using layered ferrous hydroxide as a starting precursor, which undergoes topochemical oxidation, partial dehydrogenated reaction, and final delamination, is reported. As the electrocatalyst of ENRR, the obtained nanosheets with a monolayer thickness and 10-nm mesopores display exceptional NH3 yield rate (28.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and FE (13.2%) at a potential of -0.4 V versus RHE in a phosphate buffered saline (PBS) electrolyte. The values are much higher than those of the undelaminated bulk iron oxyhydroxide. The larger specific surface area and positive charge of the nanosheets are beneficial for providing more exposed reactive sites as well as retarding hydrogen evolution reaction. This study highlights the rational control on the electronic structure and morphology of porous iron oxyhydroxide nanosheets, expanding the scope of developing non-precious iron-based highly efficient ENRR electrocatalysts.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions has been considered as a promising approach for green ammonia synthesis; however, non-precious metal-based catalysts with excellent NRR electrocatalytic performance have been scarce. Herein, self-supported bimetallic electrocatalysts of Ni12P5/FeP4 nanoplates grown on carbon cloth were synthesized by a combined process of hydrothermal technology and low-temperature phosphidation. The catalyst exhibits excellent electrocatalytic N-2 fixation performance with a high NH3 yield rate of 3.08 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2)(16.40 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)), Faradaic efficiency (39.9%) as well good durability at - 0.1 V in 0.1 M Na2SO4 at ambient conditions, which are attributed to the distinctive nanostructure and rational composition. Our study paves the way for expanding the scope of NRR research and designing more efficient electrochemical ammonia synthesis in the future.
We report a fluidized electrocatalysis system, composed of metallic titanium (Ti) mesh as the current collector and an aqueous ultrafine Co3O4 nanoparticle (NP) catalyst fabricated by the laser ablation in liquid (LAL) technique, for the efficient electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) to ammonia (NH3) synthesis. The results indicated that utilizing this fluidized electrocatalysis system, the LAL-fabricated ultrafine Co3O4 NPs highly dispersed in 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution (pH = 10.5) exhibit high NRR activity, affording an NH3 yield rate of 235.0 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency (FE) of 16.3% at -0.30 V (vs. RHE). The superior NRR performance can be ascribed to the fluidized electrocatalysis approach to take full advantage of the exposed oxygen vacancies as active sites of Co3O4 NPs for N-2 adsorption and activation.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising approach to convert earth-adundant N-2 into highly value-added NH3. Herein, it is demonstrated that the heterogeneous Au-Fe3O4 nanoparticles (NPs) can be adopted as highly efficient catalysts for NRR. Due to the synergistic effect of the strong N-2 fixation ability of Fe3O4 and the charge transfer capability of Au, the Au-Fe3O4 NPs show excellent performance with a high yield (NH3: 21.42 mu g mg(cat)(-1) h(-1)) and a favorable faradaic efficiency (NH3: 10.54%) at -0.2 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode), both of which are much better than those of the Au NPs, Fe3O4 NPs, as well as core@shell Au@Fe3O4 NPs. It also exhibits good stability with largely maintained performance after six cycles. The N-2 temperature-programmed desorption, surface valance band spectra, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy collectively confirm that Au-Fe3O4 NPs have a strong adsorption capacity for the reaction species and suitable surface structure for electronic transfer. The theoretical calculations reveal that Fe provides the active site to fix N-2 into *N2H while introducing Au optimizes the adsorption of NRR intermediates, making the NRR pathway on Au-Fe3O4 along an energetic-favorable process and enhancing the NRR.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has emerged as a promising approach for synthesizing ammonia (NH3) from nitrogen (N-2) under mild conditions. However, due to the difficulty in activating stable N-2 molecules and the competition with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), the development of active NRR electrocatalysts achieving a high NH3 formation rate and a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) is strongly desired. Herein, Cu-doped hematite (Fe2O3) nanorod arrays are synthesized by hydrothermal treatment and annealing under a N-2 atmosphere. At -0.15 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), 4.4% Cu-doped Fe2O3 exhibits a NH3 formation rate of 12.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a FE of 16.4%, demonstrating a significant improvement in the NRR performance with Cu doping. The introduction of Cu increases the number of oxygen vacancies on the catalyst surface and induces charge redistribution between the constituent Cu and Fe ions, promoting the adsorption and activation of N-2. Thus, this study not only offers an attractive earth-abundant NRR electrocatalyst but also provides an insight that heteroatom doping is effective to enhance the NRR activity through both defect engineering and electronic modulation.
Hydrophobic treatment of the catalyst surfaces can suppress the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) during the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). In this work, the surface of Ti3C2Tix MXene is modified by cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) and trimethoxy (3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-trideca fluorooctyl) silane (FOTS) to increase the hydrophobicity of MXenes. The ammonia (NH3) production rate and faradaic efficiency (FE) are improved from 37.62 to 54.01 lg h-1 mg-1cat. and 5.5% to 18.1% at -0.7 V vs. RHE, respectively after surface modification. 15N isotopic labeling experiment confirms that nitrogen in produced ammonia originates from N2 in the electrolyte. The excellent NRR activity of surface hydrophobic MXenes is mainly due to surfactant molecules, which inhibit the entry of water molecules and the competitive HER, which have been verified by in situ FT-IR, DFT and molecular dynamics calculations. This strategy provides an ingenious method to design more active NRR electrocatalysts.(c) 2023 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) enabled by introducing Ti3+ defect sites into TiO2 through a doping strategy has recently attracted widespread attention. However, the amount of Ti3+ ions is limited due to the low concentration of dopants. Herein, we propose Ti2O3 nanoparticles as a pure Ti3+ system that performs efficiently toward NH3 electrosynthesis under ambient conditions. This work has suggested that Ti3+ ions, as the main catalytically active sites, significantly increase the NRR activity. In an acidic electrolyte, Ti2O3 achieves extraordinary performance with a high NH3 yield and a Faradaic efficiency of 26.01 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) cat. and 9.16%, respectively, which are superior to most titanium-based NRR catalysts recently reported. Significantly, it also demonstrates a stable NH3 yield in five consecutive cycles. Theoretical calculations uncovered that the enhanced electrocatalytic activity of Ti2O3 originated from Ti3+ active sites and significantly lowered the overpotential of the potential-determining step.
Electrochemical reduction of N-2 to NH3 based on sustainable energy is a green technique to produce decentralized and ondemand ammonia. In this work, taking graphene as a design platform, we explore the dual-atom catalysts (DACs) via embedding two homonuclear transition metal (TM) atoms into graphene decorated with four neighboring pyrrolic nitrogen atoms (TM2N4@graphene) to computationally screen the qualified nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) catalysts. On the basis of the activity, selectivity, and stability of 15 homonuclear DACs of TM2N4@graphene, Fe2N4@graphene is identified as the most efficient NRR catalyst with a limiting potential of only -0.32 V. Electronic structure analysis demonstrates that the low oxidation state of Fe (+1) remarkably activates the molecular N-2, which contributes to its excellent NRR catalytic activity. Moreover, the kinetic studies reveal all of the NRR elementary steps exhibiting barriers smaller than that of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), showing that HER is effectively suppressed. In addition, we find that the integral crystal orbital Hamilton population (ICOHP) can be used as a descriptor to describe the Gibbs free energy of each step for its NRR performance. This work not only provides theoretical guidance for designing DACs for NRR but also promotes the understanding of DACs for N-2 fixation.
The Haber-Bosch process for industrial-scale NH(3)production suffers from hash reaction conditions and serious greenhouse gas emission. Electrochemical N(2)reduction is a sustainable and environmentally-benign alternative for ambient NH(3)synthesis while demands efficient electrocatalysts to drive the N(2)reduction reaction. Herein, we report the ambient electrocatalytic N-2-to-NH(3)conversion with excellent selectivity enabled by a CoP(3)nanoneedle array on carbon cloth (CoP3/CC). When tested in 0.1 M Na2SO4, such CoP3/CC achieves a high faradaic efficiency of 11.94% with an NH(3)yield of 3.61 x 10(-11)mol s(-1)cm(-2)at -0.20 Vvs.the reversible hydrogen electrode. It also demonstrates high durability.
Nitrogen reduction to ammonia under ambient conditions has received important attention, in which high-performing catalysts are sought. A new, facile, and seedless solvothermalmethod based on a high-temperature reduction route has been developed in this work for theproduction of bismuthene nanostructures with excellent performance in the electrocatalyticnitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Different reaction conditions were tested, such as the type ofsolvent, surfactant, reducing agent, reaction temperature, and time, as well as bismuth precursorsource, resulting in distinct particle morphologies. Two-dimensional sheet-like structures and smallparticles displayed very high electrocatalytic activity, attributed to the abundance of tips, edges, andhigh surface area. NRR experiments resulted in an ammonia yield of 571 +/- 0.1 mu gh-1cm-2with arespective Faradaic efficiency of 7.94 +/- 0.2%vsAg/AgCl. The easy implementation of the synthetic reaction to produce Bi nanostructures facilitates its potential scale up to larger production yields
Conversion of inert N-2 molecules into NH3 via electrochemical methods is an environmentally friendly alternative to replace the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, the development of highly efficient catalyst is still challenging. Herein, we report a density functional theory (DFT) based high-throughput screening to investigate the potential of 23 atomic transition metals (Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Y, Zr, Nb, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, W, Pt and Au) supported on phosphorene monolayer as electrocatalyst for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). Our theoretical results demonstrate that V single atom anchoring on phosphorene monolayer exhibits good thermal stability, selectivity and excellent catalytic activity with a low overpotential of 0.18 V. Importantly, rational design principles and electronic descriptor between the intrinsic electronic properties and activation barrier have been developed. Our work offers a new promising noble metal-free catalyst for NRR and reveals profound insights into the activity origin to guide further design.
Electrochemical conversion of nitrogen to green ammonia is an attractive alternative to the Haber-Bosch process. However, it is currently bottlenecked by the lack of highly efficient electrocatalysts to drive the sluggish nitrogen reduction reaction (N2RR). Herein, we strategically design a cost-effective bimetallic Ru-Cu mixture catalyst in a nanosponge (NS) architecture via a rapid and facile method. The porous NS mixture catalysts exhibit a large electrochemical active surface area and enhanced specific activity arising from the charge redistribution for improved activation and adsorption of the activated nitrogen species. Benefiting from the synergistic effect of the Cu constituent on morphology decoration and thermodynamic suppression of the competing hydrogen evolution reaction, the optimized Ru0.15Cu0.85 NS catalyst presents an impressive N2RR performance with an ammonia yield rate of 26.25 mu g h-1 mgcat.-1 (corresponding to 10.5 mu g h-1 cm-2) and Faradic efficiency of 4.39% as well as superior stability in alkaline medium, which was superior to that of monometallic Ru and Cu nanostructures. Additionally, this work develops a new bimetallic combination of Ru and Cu, which promotes the strategy to design efficient electrocatalysts for electrochemical ammonia production under ambient conditions.
The electrochemical conversion of N-2 at ambient conditions using renewably generated electricity is an attractive approach for sustainable ammonia (NH3) production. Considering the chemical inertness of N-2, rational design of efficient and stable catalysts is required. Therefore, in this work, it is demonstrated that a C-doped TiO2/C (C-TixOy/C) material derived from the metal-organic framework (MOF) MIL-125(Ti) can achieve a high Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 17.8 %, which even surpasses most of the established noble metal-based catalysts. On the basis of the experimental results and theoretical calculations, the remarkable properties of the catalysts can be attributed to the doping of carbon atoms into oxygen vacancies (OVs) and the formation of Ti-C bonds in C-TixOy. This binding motive is found to be energetically more favorable for N-2 activation compared to the non-substituted OVs in TiO2. This work elucidates that electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) performance can be largely improved by creating catalytically active centers through rational substitution of anions into metal oxides.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction provides sustainable environment-friendly process for ambient ammonia synthesis, and the development of highly active electrocatalysts is the critical topic. Herein, palladium hydride nanorods (PdH0.43 NRs) are synthetized for electrochemical ammonia synthesis via the hydrogenation of Pd NRs with N,N-dimethylformamide. Due to the one-dimensional structure and enhanced nitrogen adsorption, PdH0.43 NRs exhibit excellent NH3 yield (17.53 mg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1).), Faradaic efficiency (18.56%) and long-term electrochemical stability, superior to those of Pd NRs without hydrogenation. This hydrogenation strategy would offer an attractive strategy for the design of high-efficiency and robust metal hydrides for active NRR.
The electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) to ammonia (NH3) driven by intermittent renewable electricity under ambient conditions offers an alternative to the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, as a distinct core of the process, the design strategy of the electrocatalyst for enhancing the N-2 activation ability is still in a trial-and-error stage due to the absence of theoretical guidance. As a result, the corresponding NH3 yield rate and selectivity are much lower than that required for implementation at scale. In this work, on the basis of the hard-soft acid-base theory, we report a paradigm for the design of an electrocatalyst with tuned Lewis acidity to efficiently activate and reduce N-2 to NH3. As a proof of concept, it is revealed that enhancing the Lewis acidity of the molybdenum sulfide (MoSx) model catalyst supported on carbon nanotubes can greatly improve its activation ability toward the N-2 molecule. Accordingly, a high faradaic efficiency of 21.60 +/- 2.35% and NH3 yield rate of 40.4 +/- 3.6 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) are obtained over the modified MoSx, which are similar to 2 times enhanced in comparison with the original MoSx, respectively. Density functional theory calculations verify that the electron transfer from the occupied sigma orbitals of N-2 to the empty d orbitals of Mo sites within MoSx can be greatly accelerated by tuning the Lewis acidity of MoSx to match with the basicity of N-2, thereby enhancing the N-2 activation process via the sigma -> d donation mechanism.
New electrochemical ammonia (NH3) synthesis technologies are of interest as a complementary route to the Haber-Bosch process for distributed fertilizer generation, and towards exploiting ammonia as a zero-carbon fuel produced via renewably sourced electricity(1). Apropos of these goals is a surge of fundamental research targeting heterogeneous materials as electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (N2RR)(2). These systems generally suffer from poor stability and NH3 selectivity; the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) outcompetes N2RR3. Molecular catalyst systems can be exquisitely tuned and offer an alternative strategy(4), but progress has been thwarted by the same selectivity issue; HER dominates. Here we describe a tandem catalysis strategy that offers a solution to this puzzle. A molecular complex that can mediate an N-2 reduction cycle is partnered with a co-catalyst that interfaces the electrode and an acid to mediate proton-coupled electron transfer steps, facilitating N-H bond formation at a favourable applied potential (-1.2 V versus Fc(+/0)) and overall thermodynamic efficiency. Certain intermediates of the N2RR cycle would be otherwise unreactive via uncoupled electron transfer or proton transfer steps. Structurally diverse complexes of several metals (W, Mo, Os, Fe) also mediate N2RR electrocatalysis at the same potential in the presence of the mediator, pointing to the generality of this tandem approach.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) under mild conditions is an attractive prospect for ammonia synthesis. However, this process faces with poor ammonia yield rate and low Faradic efficiency. Herein, we developed exfoliated metallic niobium disulfate (NbS2) nanosheets for an electrochemical NRR. Owing to more exposed active sites and high electron transfer ability, the exfoliated NbS2 nanosheets show an extraordinary activity for electrochemical NRR. A high Faradaic efficiency of 10.12 % with an ammonia yield rate of 37.58 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) is achieved at -0.5 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The Nb4+ species of exfoliated NbS2 are confirmed as active sites for NRR. When the exfoliated NbS2 nanosheets are further assembled into a Zn-N-2 battery and serve as the cathode, an energy density of 714 mA h g(-1) with a power density of 0.31 mW cm(-2) is achieved. Notably, electrochemical NRR on exfoliated NbS2 nanosheets can be further driven by solar energy.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is an efficient and green way to produce ammonia, which offers an alternative option to the conventional Haber-Bosch process. Unfortunately, the large-scale industrial application of NRR processes is still hindered by poor Faraday efficiency and high overpotential, which need to be overcome urgently. Herein, combined with density functional theory and particle swarm optimization algorithm for the nitrogen carbide monolayer structural search (CmN8-m, m = 1-7), the surprising discovery is that single transition metal-atom-doped C4N4 monolayers (TM@C4N4) could effectively accelerate nitrogen reduction reaction. TM@C4N4 (TM = 29 transition metals) as single-atom catalysts are evaluated via traditional multi-step screening method, and their structures, NRR activity, selectivity and solvation effect are investigated to evaluate their NRR performance. Through the screening steps, W@C4N4 possesses the highest activity for NRR with a very low limiting potential of -0.29 V. Moreover, an intrinsic descriptor u is proposed with machine learning, which shortens the screening process and provides a new idea for finding efficient SACs. This work not only offers promising catalysts W@C4N4 for NRR process but also offers a new intrinsic and universal descriptor u.& COPY; 2023 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
N-2 electroreduction into NH3 represents an attractive prospect for N-2 utilization. Nevertheless, this process suffers from low Faraday efficiency (FE) and yield rate for NH3. In this work, a highly efficient metal-free catalyst is developed by introducing F atoms into a 3D porous carbon framework (F-doped carbon) toward N-2 electroreduction. At -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), the F-doped carbon achieves the highest FE of 54.8% for NH3, which is 3.0 times as high as that (18.3%) of pristine carbon frameworks. Notably, at -0.3 V versus RHE, the yield rate of F-doped carbon for NH3 reaches 197.7 mu g(NH3) mg(cat.)(-1) h(-1). Such a value is more than one order of magnitude higher than those of other metal-free electrocatalysts under the near-ambient conditions for NH3 product to date. Mechanistic studies reveal that the improved performance in N-2 electroreduction for F-doped carbon originates from the enhanced binding strength of N-2 and the facilitated dissociation of N-2 into *N2H. F bonding to C atom creates a Lewis acid site due to the different electronegativity between the F and C atoms. As such, the repulsive interaction between the Lewis acid site and proton H suppresses the activity of H-2 evolution reaction, thus enhancing the selectivity of N-2 electroreduction into NH3.
Electrochemical fixation of nitrogen to ammonia with highly active, highly selective and low cost electrocatalysts is a sustainable alternative to the extremely energy- and capital-intensive Haber-Bosch process. Herein, we demonstrate a near electroneutral WO3 nanobelt catalyst to be a promising electrocatalyst for selective and efficient nitrogen reduction. The concept of near electroneutral interface is demonstrated by fabricating WO3 nanobelts with small zeta potential value on carbon fiber paper, which ensures a loose double layer structure of the electrode/electrolyte interface and allows nitrogen molecules access the active sites more easily and regulates proton transfer to increase the catalytic selectivity. The WO3/CFP electrode with optimal surface charge achieves a NH3 yield rate of 4.3 mu g.h(-1).mg(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 37.3% at -0.3 V vs. RHE, rivalling the performance of the state-of-the-art nitrogen reduction reaction electrocatalysts. The result reveals that an unobstructed gas-diffusion pathway for continually supplying enough nitrogen to the active catalytic sites is of great importance to the overall catalytic performance.
Renewable energy-driven ammonia electrosynthesis by N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) at ambient conditions is vital for sustainability of both, the global population and energy demand. However, NRR under ambient conditions to date has been plagued with a low yield rate and selectivity (<10%) due to the more favorable hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in aqueous media. Herein, surface area enhanced alpha-Fe nanorods grown on carbon fiber paper were used as NRR cathodes in an aprotic fluorinated solvent ionic liquid mixture. Through this design, significantly enhanced NRR activity with an NH3 yield rate of similar to 2.35 X 10(-11) mol s(-1) cm(GsA)(-2), (3.71 X 10(-13) mol cm(EcsA)(-2)) and selectivity of similar to 32% has been achieved under ambient conditions. This study reveals that the use of hydrophobic fluorinated aprotic electrolyte effectively limits the availability of protons and thus suppresses the competing HER. Therefore, electrode electrolyte engineering is essential in advancing the NH3 electrosynthesis technology.
Cost-effective carbon-based catalysts are promising for electrochemical ammonia synthesis. In the work, the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) performances of the single transition metal atom anchored zigzag graphene nanoribbon with H/F termination, termed as TM-G/H and TM-G/F, are systematically investigated via density functional theory calculations wherein V, Fe and Mo are considered among the various TM elements. The N2-toNH3 conversions are conducted via the distal mechanism under the onset potentials of 0.55 and 0.42 V for Mo-G/ H and Mo-G/F, respectively. More interestingly, the edge fluorination suppresses the competing hydrogen reduction reaction in comparison with the hydrogenation counterpart, boosting the NRR efficiency. The electronic analysis elucidates that the edge termination alters the binding strength of Mo anchoring and thereby modifies its affinity toward the NRR intermediates. In this regard, the activity improvement stems from the edge fluorination in combination with the Mo dopant. Beyond element-screening, our finding provides a rational strategy of edge engineering to design carbon-based electrocatalysis.
The conventional Haber-Bosch process for industrial NH3 production from N-2 and H-2 is highly energy-intensive with a large amount of CO2 emissions and finding a more suitablemethod for NH3 synthesis under mild conditions is a very attractive topic. The electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) offers us an environmentally benign and sustainable route. In this communication, we report that C-doped TiO2 nanoparticles act as an efficient electrocatalyst for the NRR with excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4, it achieves an NH3 yield of 16.22 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 1.84% at -0.7 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Furthermore, this catalyst also shows good stability during electrolysis and recycling tests.
Design of cost-effective, yet highly active electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is of vital significance for sustainable electrochemical NH3 synthesis. Herein, we have demonstrated, from both computational and experimental perspectives, that FeTe2 can be an efficient and durable NRR catalyst. Theoretical computations unveil that FeTe2 possesses abundant surface-terminated and low-coordinate Fe sites that can activate the NRR with a low limiting potential (-0.84 V) and currently impede the competing hydrogen evolution reaction. As a proof-of-concept prototype, we synthesized FeTe2 nanoparticles supported on reduced graphene oxide (FeTe2/RGO), which exhibited a high NRR activity with the exceptional combination of NH3 yield (39.2 lg h-1 mg-1) and Faradaic efficiency (18.1%), thus demonstrating the feasibility of using FeTe2 and other earth-abundant metal tellurides for electrocatalytic N2 fixation. ? 2020 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
Using electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to make NH3 is considered to be an attractive environmentally-friendly alternative to the Haber-Bosch process, which is rather energy-intensive and has heavy CO2 emissions. However, only limited success has been achieved in identifying metal oxides as effective electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under alkaline conditions. In this communication, we report that a K2Ti4O9 nanobelt is able to effectively electrocatalyze the ambient NRR for N-2-to-NH3 fixation at alkaline pH. When tested in 0.1 M KOH, a high NH3 yield of 22.88 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 5.87% were attained. Moreover, K2Ti4O9 also demonstrates good selectivity and high electrochemical stability for NH3 formation.
The typical Haber technical process for industrial NH3 production involves plenty of energy-consumption and large quantities of greenhouse gas emission. In contrast, electrochemical N-2 reduction proffers environment-friendly and energy-efficient avenues to synthesize NH3 at mild conditions but demands efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Herein we report for the first time that commercial indium-tin oxide glass (ITO/G) can be used as a catalyst electrode toward artificial N-2 fixation, as it demonstrates excellent selectivity at mild conditions. Such ITO/G delivers excellent NRR performance with a NH3 yield of 1.06 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and a faradaic efficiency of 6.17% at -0.40 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.5 M LiClO4. Furthermore, the ITO/G also possesses good electrochemical stability and durability. Finally, the possible reaction mechanism for the NRR on the ITO catalysts was explored using first-principles calculations. (C) 2021, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Industrial ammonia synthesis revolutionized global agriculture and industry, but it consumes significant amounts of energy and releases vast quantities of CO2. One alternative, electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction generally suffers from a low ammonia yield rate and poor selectivity. Here, a tandem plasma-electrocatalysis strategy was proposed to harvest ammonia from the air. An ammonia yield rate (similar to 1.43 mg(NH3 )cm(-2) h(-1)) with almost 100% faradaic efficiency was achieved during over 50 hours of stable operation at -0.33 V vs. RHE. The ammonia yield rate reached up to similar to 3.0 mg(NH3) cm(-2) h(-1) with a faradaic efficiency of similar to 62% at -0.63 V vs. RHE. This marked performance is achieved by separating activation of stable nitrogen molecules via non-thermal plasma, followed by selective ammonia synthesis via a cobalt single-atom electrocatalyst. This strategy may rival the Haber-Bosch process and the aspirational electrochemical nitrogen reduction at a distributed small-size ammonia production based on a techno-economic analysis.
Herein, FeMoO(4)nanorods are explored as an efficient electrocatalyst for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in 0.1 M Na(2)SO(4)solution, with an NH(3)yield rate of 17.51 mu g h(-1)mg(-1)and a high faradaic efficiency (FE) of 10.53%. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that surface Fe atoms are the active centers for NRRviaan alternating mechanism.
To enable an efficient and cost-effective electrocatalytic N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) the development of an electrocatalyst with a high NH3 yield and good selectivity is required. In this work, Ti3C2Tx MXene-derived quantum dots (Ti3C2Tx QDs) with abundant active sites enable the development of efficient NRR electrocatalysts. Given surface functional groups play a key role on the electrocatalytic performance, density functional theory calculations are first conducted, clarifying that hydroxyl groups on Ti3C2Tx offer excellent NRR activity. Accordingly, hydroxyl-rich Ti3C2Tx QDs (Ti3C2OH QDs) are synthesized as NRR catalysts by alkalization and intercalation. This material offers an NH3 yield and Faradaic efficiency of 62.94 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and 13.30% at -0.50 V, respectively, remarkably higher than reported MXene catalysts. This work demonstrates that MXene catalysts can be mediated through the optimization of both QDs sizes and functional groups for efficient ammonia production at room temperature.
Electrocatalytic N-2 reduction under ambient-condition is considered to be the most appealing strategy to the conventional Haber-Bosch process for synthetic ammonia to alleviate greenhouse emissions and reduce environmental pollution, mainly powered by renewable energy. Recent years, rapid advances have been gained in this attractive research field, and numerous electrocatalysts have been exploited. However, its conversion efficiency is still far behind the requirement of industrial applications owing to the breakage of the N equivalent to N triple bond, which is an energetically challenging kinetically complex multistep reaction and the strong competing reaction of hydrogen evolution reaction. Recently, main group metal-based catalysts have been demonstrated promising application prospect for ammonia production, significantly boosting their further application in this field. However, a comprehensive review of main group metal-based catalysts towards electrochemical ammonia production applications is still lacking. In this review, the fundamentals of N-2 reduction, such as the reaction pathways, the reaction potential and the challenges of N-2 reduction have been comprehensively discussed. And then, the role, mechanism, and effect of each main group element-based catalysts used for N-2 reduction (Li, K, Al, Ga, Sn, Sb, Bi, and their compounds) are systematically summarized. Finally, several state-of-the-art strategies to promote their NRR catalytic performance, as well as the existing problems and prospects are put forward. This review is expected to guide the design and establishment of more efficient electrocatalytic N-2 reduction systems based on main group metal elements in the future. (C) 2021 Science Press and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by ELSEVIER B.V. and Science Press. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) provides a quite potential method for ammonia (NH3) synthesis under ambient conditions, while it requires efficient and durable catalysts. In this communication, we report an ultrathin nanosheets MoS2 that acts as electrocatalyst for NRR, which assumed excellent selectivity. In 0.1 M Na2SO4 with N-2-saturation under ambient conditions, this electrocatalyst at -0.6 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) exhibited a large NH3 yield of 41.66 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1). and a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 1.10%. Furthermore, the electrochemical stability is also exhibiting excellent.
Ammonia (NH3), as an important chemical substance and clean energy carrier, plays an indispensable role in industrial and agricultural production. The electrocatalytic synthesis of NH3 under mild conditions has attracted worldwide attention in the energy field due to its environmental friendliness and cost efficiency, but unsatisfactory NH3 yields and Faradaic efficiencies are restricting its development. The introduction of defect has been demonstrated as a feasible way to overcome the disadvantages of electrochemistry, as it can regulate the electronic structure and modulate coordination environment of electrocatalysts, which further create active sites and enhance nitrogen adsorption. In this regard, it is necessary to understand the effects of various types of defects on electrocatalysts based on the latest progress in the defect en-gineering for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). In this review, the concept, classifications, and charac-terization of defects as well as the approaches to create them in electrocatalysts are firstly discussed. Then, certain types of defects (vacancy, dopant, amorphism, edge/corner, and porousness) affecting the performances of various electrocatalysts are further described. Finally, the summary and challenges of electrocatalytic ammonia synthesis are proposed to design advanced electrocatalysts with high efficiency. (c) 2023 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Chemical Society and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences.
We address the low selectivity problem faced by the electrochemical nitrogen (N-2) reduction reaction (NRR) to ammonia (NH3) by exploiting the Mars-van Krevelen (MvK) mechanism on two-dimensional (2D) Ti2N nitride MXene. NRR technology is a viable alternative to reducing the energy and greenhouse gas emission footprint from NH3 production. Most NRR catalysts operate by using an associative or dissociative mechanism, during which the NRR competes with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), resulting in low selectivity. The MvK mechanism reduces this competition by eliminating the adsorption and dissociation processes at the sites for NH3 synthesis. We show that the new class of 2D materials, nitride MXenes, evoke the MvK mechanism to achieve the highest Faradaic efficiency (FE) towards NH3 reported for any pristine transition metal-based catalyst-19.85% with a yield of 11.33 mu g/cm(2)/hr at an applied potential of - 250 mV versus RHE. These results can be expanded to a broad class of systems evoking the MvK mechanism and constitute the foundation of NRR technology based on MXenes.
NH3 synthesis almost relies on the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process with abandoned CO2 emission. Electrochemical N-2 reduction offers an environmentally friendly process for sustainable artificial N-2 fixation at ambient conditions, but stable and efficient catalysts are demanded for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). In this Letter, we report that boron-doped TiO2 acts as an efficient non-noble-metal NRR catalyst for electrochemical N-2 reduction to NH3 at ambient conditions. This catalyst delivers remarkable NRR performance in 0.1 M Na2SO4 with a NH3 yield of 14.4 mu g.h(-1).mg(cat)(-1). and a Faradaic efficiency of 3.4% at -0.8 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode. Notably, it is also excellent in electrochemical durability and selectivity for NH3 formation.
Electrochemical synthesis of ammonia via nitrogen reduction reaction is a rational route to save energy and relieve pollution compared to the traditional Haber-Bosch process. In this report, ZrO2 nanosphere derived from thermolysis of Zr-based biphenyl-4,4 '-dicarboxylic acid MOFs (ZrO2/C) as a non-noble metal catalyst with large specific surface area and porous structure is proposed to fix nitrogen to ammonia at ambient conditions. Such catalyst achieves Faradaic efficiency of 11.86 % and a NH3 yield rate of 10.72 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.6 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode in 0.1 M Na2SO4. First-principles calculations confirm the alternating reaction at the catalyst surface.
Ammonia (NH3) is widely used in various fields, and it is also considered a promising carbon free energy carrier, due to its high hydrogen content. The nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR), which converts nitrogen into ammonia by using protons from water as the hydrogen source, is receiving a lot of attention, since effective process optimization would make it possible to overcome the Haber-Bosch method. In this study, we used a solution-based approach to obtain functionalized porous Ni foam substrates with a small amount of gold (<0.1 mg cm(-1)). We investigated several deposition conditions and obtained different morphologies. The electrochemical performance of various catalysts on the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and NRR has been characterized. The ammonia production yield was determined by chronoamperometry experiments at several potentials, and the results showed a maximum ammonia yield rate of 20 g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a Faradaic efficiency of 5.22%. This study demonstrates the potential of gold-based catalysts for sustainable ammonia production and highlights the importance of optimizing deposition conditions to improve the selectivity toward HER.
Electrochemical ammonia synthesis is a promising alternative technique to traditional Haber-Bosch process, capable of converting nitrogen to ammonia at ambient conditions and can be driven by intermittent energy. However, it generally requires high overpotential for nitrogen dissociation due to the stable triple bonds of nitrogen molecules, resulting in a poor ammonia yield rate. Tailoring the electrolyte-ion composition is a promising approach to facilitate nitrogen dissociation by optimizing the local reaction environment near the electrode toward ammonia production. In this study, the effect of anions in the electrolyte composition on electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction to ammonia is investigated. It is found that a lower onset potential for nitrogen reduction (-0.2 V vs RHE) and a higher ammonia yield rate (6.69 x 10(-11) mol cm(-2) s(-1)) are achieved in the electrolyte containing OH- anions, compared to singly charged anions of Cl- and SCN- when using an electrode made of commercial Au/C electrocatalysts. In addition, current density contributed by nitrogen reduction achieved in the high-pH electrolyte (pH >= 13) shows around 3-fold increase compared to that in low-pH electrolyte (11 <= pH <= 12). Such performance enhancement is possibly attributed to the appearance of hydronium ions (H3O+) in high-pH electrolyte, which facilitates nitrogen dissociation by strengthening protonation(*N2+6H3O++6e-->*+2NH3 center dot H2O+4H2O).
To achieve the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) for efficient and sustainable NH3 production, catalysts should exhibit high selectivity and activity with optimal adsorption energy. Herein we developed a three-dimensional (3D) amorphous BiNi alloy toward a significantly enhanced NRR compared with its crystalline and metal counterparts. Ni alloying enables the chemisorption of nitrogen and the lower free-energy change for the *NNH formation, and the 3D alloy electrocatalyst exhibits high catalytic activity for NH3 production with a yield rate of 17.5 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and Faradaic efficiency of 13.8 %. The enhanced electron transfer and increased electrochemical surface area were revealed in the interconnected porous scaffold, affording it sufficiently efficient and stable activity for potential practical applications. This work offers new insights into optimizing the adsorption energy of reactants and intermediates combined with tuning the crystallinity of NRR electrocatalysts.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (ENRR) is a potential approach to environment-friendly produce NH3 under ambient conditions. However, the efficiency of ENRR is seriously limited by the extremely low solubility of N-2 in electrolyte and the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) under high overpotential. Herein, we demonstrate that a deliberately designed urchin-like (U-L) Co3O4 electrocatalyst exhibits an enhanced ENRR performance with a promising Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 18.5 % and a high NH3 yield of 49.1 mu g h(-l) mg(cat)(-1) in 0.5 M LiClO4. Experimental results and computational simulations prove that the high-curvature tips of U-LCo3O4 can generate a strong local electric field, which is similar to the lightning rod effect in nature. Consequently, the engineered strong local electric field effectively induces Li+ accumulation and correspondingly results in a high local concentration of N-2 at the electrocatalyst surface. The strategy of local electric field enhanced electrochemical kinetic opens a new avenue to explore advanced electrocatalysts to promote the ENRR performance.
Development of methods for economically feasible greener ammonia (NH3) production is gaining tremendous scientific attention. NH3 has its importance in fertilizer industry and it is envisaged as a safer liquid hydrogen carrier for futuristic energy resources. Here, an aqueous electrolysis based NH3 production in ambient conditions is reported, which yields high faradaic efficiency (similar to 12%) NH3 via nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) at low over potentials (similar to -0.6 V vs. RHE or -1.1 V vs. Ag/AgCl). Polycrystalline copper (Cu) and gold (Au) are used as electrodes for electrochemical NRR, where the electrolyte which yields high formation rate of NH3 (similar to 20 x 10(-11) mol.s(-1).cm(GSA)(-2)) is 5 M LiClO4 in water with Cu as working electrode. A detailed study conducted here establishes the role of Li+ in stabilizing nitrogen near to the working electrode - augmenting the NRR in comparison to its competitor - hydrogen evolution reaction, and a mechanistic insight in to the phenomenon is provided. N-15(2) assisted labeling experiments are also conducted to confirm the formation of ammonia via NRR. This study opens up the possibilities of developing economically feasible electrodes for electrochemical NRR at lower energies with only transient modifications of electrodes during the electrolysis, unlike the studies reported on complex electrodes or electrolytes designed for NRR in aqueous medium to suppress the hydrogen generation.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising technology for the synthesis of NH3 in an ambient environment. However, developing low-cost and high-efficiency electrocatalysts still remains a long-standing challenge. In this work, density function theory (DFT) calculations are done to systematically investigate the NRR catalytic activity of transition metals (TM = Sc-Cu, Y-Ag, and Hf-Au) supported on monolayer graphyne (GY). TM@GY (TM = Sc, V, Mn, Y, Tc, and Os) with excellent NRR performance are demonstrated. The mixed pathway is the most favorable for Sc, V, Y, and Os@GY with the potentials of -0.37, -0.27, -0.40, and -0.36 V, respectively, while the distal reaction pathway is most favorable for Mn and Tc@GY with the potentials of -0.37 and -0.42 V. Most strikingly, Mn, Tc, and Os@GY exhibit high NRR selectivity. This work provides a screening scheme for exploring highly efficient electrocatalysts for the electrochemical NRR under ambient conditions.
We report the development of MOF-derived nitrogen-doped carbon/Co3O4 nanocomposites (Co3O4@NCs) with core-shell structures as an efficient electrocatalyst for the artificial nitrogen fixation at room temperature and atmospheric pressure in 0.05 M H2SO4. It exhibits a high NH3 yield of 42.58 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and a faradaic efficiency of 8.5% at -0.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. Experimental results show that the great N-2 reduction reaction performance of Co3O4@NCs originates from the synergistic effects of N-doped carbon and Co3O4 with significant oxygen vacancy. In addition, we speculate that the core-shell structure can further enhance the electrochemical activity for producing NH3.
The electroreduction of N-2 under ambient conditions has emerged as one of the most promising technologies in chemistry, since it is a greener way to make NH 3 than the traditional Haber-Bosch process. However, it is greatly challenged with a low NH3 yield and faradaic efficiency (FE) because of the lack of highly active and selective catalysts. Inherently, transition (d-block) metals suffer from inferior selectivity due to fierce competition from H-2 evolution, while post-transition (p-block) metals exhibit poor activity due to insufficient pi back-donation behavior. Considering their distinct yet complementary electronic structures, here we propose a strategy to tackle the activity and selectivity challenge through the atomic dispersion of p-block metal on an all-amorphous transition-metal matrix. To address the activity issue, lotus-root-like amorphous TiO2 nanofibers are synthesized which, different from vacancy-engineered TiO2 nanocrystals reported previously, possess abundant intrinsic oxygen vacancies (V-O) together with under-coordinated dangling bonds in nature, resulting in significantly enhanced N-2 activation and electron transport capacity. To address the selectivity issue, well-isolated single atoms (SAs) of Ga are successfully synthesized through the confinement effect of V-O, resulting in Ga-V-O reactive sites with the maximum availability. It is revealed by density functional theory calculations that Ga SAs are favorable for the selective adsorption of N-2 at the catalyst surface, while V-O can facilitate N-2 activation and reduction subsequently. Benefiting from this coupled activity/selectivity design, high NH3 yield (24.47 mu g h(-1) mg(-1)) and FE (48.64%) are achieved at an extremely low overpotential of -0.1 V vs RHE.
Ammonia (NH3) is considered an attractive candidate as a clean, highly efficient energy carrier. The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) can reduce energy input and carbon footprint; therefore, rational design of effective electrocatalysts is essential for achieving high-efficiency electrocatalytic NH3 synthesis. Herein, we report that the enzymatic mechanism is the more favourable pathway for NRR, due to lower limiting potential (-0.44 V), lower free energy (only 0.02 eV) of the first hydrogenation step (*N-N to *NH-N), and more electron transfer from Fe2B2 to the reaction species. In addition, both vacancies and dopants can be helpful in reducing the reaction energy barrier of the potential-determining step. Therefore, we have demonstrated that Fe2B2 is a potential new candidate for effective NRR and highlighted its potential for applications in electrocatalytic NH3 synthesis. (C) 2021 Chinese Chemical Society and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
As a carbon-neutral alternative to the Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical N-2 reduction enables environment-friendly NH3 synthesis at ambient conditions but needs active electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction. Here, we report that conductive metal-organic framework Co-3(hexahydroxytriphenylene)(2) (Co3HHTP2) nanoparticles act as an efficient catalyst for ambient electrochemical N-2-to-NH3 fixation. When tested in 0.5 M LiClO4, such Co3HHTP2 achieves a large NH3 yield of 22.14 mu g center dot h(-1)mg(cat.)(-1) with a faradaic efficiency of 3.34% at -0.40 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode. This catalyst also shows high electrochemical stability and excellent selectivity toward NH3 synthesis.
The development of environmentally benign, cost-effective, efficient electrocatalyst for N2 reduction into NH3 formation under ambient condition is the most challenging task. On the other hand, photocatalysis plays a vital role to convert solar energy into valuable chemicals. As a polymeric semiconductor, triazine based porous C6N6 sheet can behave as next generation photocatalyst due to its appealing band structure, mechanical as well as thermodynamical stability. In nature the only biological enzyme is nitrogenase which can undergo N2 fixation with its Fe-Mo active center. Inspired by this, with the assistance of Density Functional Theory, the electro-catalytic as well as photocatalytic activity are investigated for a series of total 13 transition metal (including Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd) embedded on C6N6 sheet towards NRR. Through high-throughput first-principle calculations, Mo@C6N6 sheet for NRR is screened out, which shows high catalytic activity and selectivity towards NRR. We found that NRR is favorable in Distal Pathway with a limiting potential value of 0.53 V which is quite well. Moreover, our predicted catalyst Mo@C6N6 sheet is capable to harvest solar light which is clear from the satisfactory absorption zone, suitable band edge positions and enough electron-hole separation. So, precisely it can be stated that, this system can be used as promising electrocatalyst as well as efficient photocatalyst for NRR. Next, the bond-length and charge variation of all the intermediates participated in each elementary step are further examined to obtain deep insights of high catalytic activity. The formation energy, lower binding energy and AIMD simulation at various temperature (300, 500 and 800 K) indicate its thermodynamic stability and it strengthens the ease of experimental synthesis. These findings provide a bene-ficial platform for exploring new electrocatalyst and photocatalyst for NRR under ambient conditions.
Exploration of efficient catalysts is a priority for the electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) in order to receive a high product yield rate and faradaic efficiency of NH3, under ambient conditions. In the present contribution, the binding free energy of N-2, NNH, and NH2 were used as descriptors to screen the potential NRR electrocatalyst among different single or binuclear transition metal atoms on N-doped nanoporous graphene. Results showed that the binuclear Mo catalyst might exhibit the highest catalytic activity. Further free energy profiles confirmed that binuclear Mo catalysts possess the lowest potential determining step (hydrogenation of NH2* to NH3). The improved activities could be ascribed to a down-shift of the density of states for Mo atoms. This investigation could contribute to the design of a highly active NRR electrocatalyst.
Today, industrial ammonia synthesis mainly depends on the Haber-Bosch process, which causes a lot of energy consumption and huge CO2 emissions. The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is considered a more sustainable and environmentally benign alternative to produce ammonia, but it requires an efficient catalyst to overcome the difficulty of N-2 activation. In this work, we reported that MOF-derived C@NiO@Ni microtubes behaved as a high-efficiency electrocatalyst in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. This electrocatalyst achieved a high NH3 yield of 43.15 mg h(-1) mg(cat)(-1) and faradaic efficiency of 10.9% at -0.7 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode. The experimental results indicated that the excellent NRR performance originated from the oxygen vacancies in NiO. Moreover, the abundant NiO/Ni interfaces were conducive to proton adsorption and further enhanced the NRR performance.
The electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is greatly challenged by relatively low faradaic efficiency (FE) owing to fierce competition from the H-2 evolution reaction (HER) suffered by the current transition-metal electrocatalysts (d-block elements). Considering the unique electronic structure of group-VA pnictogens (p block elements) that is complementary to d-block elements in HER suppression, we report a conceptually new Janus electrocatalyst to tackle the selectivity challenge. Specifically, an amorphous NiSb2O6-x nanofiber is synthesized, in which Ni and Sb contribute to a synergistic catalysis pathway for inhibiting the two-electron transfer process of HER as well as activating the adsorbed N-2 molecules. Moreover, amorphization is able to produce more oxygen vacancies, thus mimicking the pi back-donation  process to promote the NRR performance. Benefiting from this coupled element design and amorphization strategy, the amorphous NiSb2O6-x nanofiber significantly outperforms either component (NiO or Sb2O4) as well as its crystalline counterparts in terms of NH3 yield and FE.
Electrochemical synthesis has garnered attention as a promising alternative to the traditional Haber-Bosch process to enable the generation of ammonia (NH3) under ambient conditions. Current electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) to produce NH3 are comprised of noble metals or transitional metals. Here, an efficient metal-free catalyst (BCN) is demonstrated without precious component and can be easily fabricated by pyrolysis of organic precursor. Both theoretical calculations and experiments confirm that the doped BN pairs are the active triggers and the edge carbon atoms near to BN pairs are the active sites toward the NRR. This doping strategy can provide sufficient active sites while retarding the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) process; thus, NRR with high NH3 formation rate (7.75 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1)) and excellent Faradaic efficiency (13.79%) are achieved at -0.3 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), exceeding the performance of most of the metallic catalysts.
Traditional NH3 production based on the Haber-Bosch process is usually accompanied by high energy consumption and a large amount of carbon dioxide emission, which are not conducive to the realization of global carbon neutralization. Electrochemical N-2 reduction is regarded as a clean strategy to deal with this problem. In this work, porous LiFe5O8 nanoparticle-reduced graphene oxide (rGO) is proposed as an efficient electrocatalyst for artificial N-2-to-NH3 fixation with excellent selectivity under ambient conditions. Electrochemical tests in 0.1 M HCl show that such a hybrid achieves a high NH3 yield of 36.025 mg h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 13.08% at -0.2 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Furthermore, it also exhibits structural stability. Theoretical calculations reveal that LiFe5O8-rGO can efficiently catalyze NH3 synthesis with a low energy barrier.
The growing demands for ammonia in agriculture and transportation fuel stimulate researchers to develop sustainable electrochemical methods to synthesize ammonia ambiently, to get past the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process. However, the conventionally used aqueous electrolytes limit N-2 solubility, leading to insufficient reactant molecules in the vicinity of the catalyst during electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR). This hampers the yield and production rate of ammonia, irrespective of how efficient the catalyst is. Herein, we introduce an aqueous electrolyte (NaBF4), which not only acts as an N-2-carrier in the medium but also works as a full-fledged co-catalyst along with our active material MnN4 to deliver a high yield of NH3 (328.59 mu g h(-1) mg(cat)(-1)) at 0.0 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. BF3-induced charge polarization shifts the metal d-band center of the MnN4 unit close to the Fermi level, inviting N-2 adsorption facilely. The Lewis acidity of the free BF3 molecules further propagates their importance in polarizing the N N bond of the adsorbed N-2 and its first protonation. This push-pull kind of electronic interaction has been confirmed from the change in d-band center values of the MnN4 site as well as charge density distribution over our active model units, which turned out to be effective enough to lower the energy barrier of the potential determining steps of NRR. Consequently, a high production rate of NH3 (2.45 x 10(-9) mol s(-1) cm(-2)) was achieved, approaching the industrial scale where the source of NH 3 was thoroughly studied and confirmed to be chiefly from the electrochemical reduction of the purged N-2 gas.
Instead of the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process, the researchers proposed a way to produce ammonia using water and nitrogen as feedstock, powered by electricity, without polluting the environment. Nevertheless, how to design efficient electrocatalyst for electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is still urgent and challenging. Herein, a strategy is proposed to adjust the morphology and surface electronic structure of electrocatalyst by optimizing material synthesis method. LiNbO3 (lithium niobate, LN) cubes with oxygen-rich vacancy and regular morphology were synthesized by hydrothermal synthesis and followed molten salt calcination process, which were used for electrocatalytic NRR under mild conditions. Compared with LN nanoparticles synthesized by solid phase reaction, LN cubes exhibit better NRR performance, with the highest ammonia yield rate (13.74 lg center dot h-1 center dot mg-1) at the best potential of-0.45 VRHE (vs. reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) and the best Faradaic efficiency (85.43%) at-0.4 VRHE. Moreover, LN cubes electrocatalyst also demonstrates high stability in 7 cycles and 18 h current-time tests. Further investigation of the reaction mechanism confirmed that the structure of oxygen vacancy could adjust the electronic structure of the electrocatalyst, which was conducive to the adsorption and activation of N2 molecule and also increased the ECSA of electrocatalyst, thus providing more active sites for the NRR process.(c) 2023 The Chemical Industry and Engineering Society of China, and Chemical Industry Press Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrochemical nitrogen-to-ammonia fixation is emerging as a sustainable strategy to tackle the hydrogen-and energy-intensive operations by Haber-Bosch process for ammonia production. However, current electro-chemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) progress is impeded by overwhelming competition from the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) across all traditional NRR catalysts and the requirement for elevated temperature/pressure. We achieve both excellent NRR selectivity (similar to 90%) and a significant boost to Faradic efficiency by 10 percentage points even at ambient operations by coating a superhydrophobic metal-organic framework (MOF) layer over the NRR electrocatalyst. Our reticular chemistry approach exploits MOF's water-repelling and molecular-concentrating effects to overcome HER-imposed bottlenecks, uncovering the unprecedented electrochemical features of NRR critical for future theoretical studies. By favoring the originally unfavored NRR, we envisage our electrocatalytic design as a starting point for high-performance nitrogen-to-ammonia electro-conversion directly from water vapor-abundant air to address increasing global demand of ammonia in (bio) chemical and energy industries.
Electrocatalytic or photocatalytic N-2 reduction holds great promise for green and sustainable NH3 production under ambient conditions, where an efficient catalyst plays a crucial role but remains a long-standing challenge. Here, a high-throughput screening of catalysts for N-2 reduction among (nitrogen-doped) graphene-supported single atom catalysts is performed based on a general two-step strategy. 10 promising candidates with excellent performance are extracted from 540 systems. Most strikingly, a single W atom embedded in graphene with three C atom coordination (W1C3) exhibits the best performance with an extremely low onset potential of 0.25 V. This study not only provides a series of promising catalysts for N-2 fixation, but also paves a new way for the rational design of catalysts for N-2 fixation under ambient conditions.
Compared with the traditional Haber-Bosch process, electrochemical ammonia synthesis has attracted much attention owing to its low energy consumption, low pollution potential, and sustainability. However, owing to the influence of high overpotential and low selectivity, the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) process was of limited applicability in industry. Here, we report a high-performance Ru@Ti3C2 MXene catalyst for an ambient electrocatalytic NRR. In a 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, the NH3 yield of the Ru@MXene catalyst reached 2.3 mu mol h(-1) cm(-2), furthermore, at -0.4 V (vs. RHE) the Faraday efficiency was 13.13%.
The electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising alternative to the energy-intensive Haber-Bosch process for ammonia synthesis. Among the possible electrocatalysts, bismuth-based materials have shown unique NRR properties due to their electronic structures and poor hydrogen evolution activity. However, identification of the active sites and reaction mechanism is still difficult due to structural and chemical changes under reaction potentials. Herein, in situ Raman spectroscopy, complemented by electron microscopy, is employed to investigate the structural and chemical transformation of the Bi species during the NRR. Nanorod-like bismuth-based metal-organic frameworks are reduced in situ and fragment into densely contacted Bi(0)nanoparticles under the applied potentials. The fragmented Bi(0)nanoparticles exhibit excellent NRR performance in both neutral and acidic electrolytes, with an ammonia yield of 3.25 +/- 0 .08 mu g cm(-2)h(-1)at -0.7 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode and a Faradaic efficiency of 12.11 +/- 0.84% at -0.6 V in 0.10mNa(2)SO(4). Online differential electrochemical mass spectrometry detects the production of NH(3)and N(2)H(2)during NRR, suggesting a possible pathway through two-step reduction and decomposition. This work highlights the importance of monitoring and optimizing the electronic and geometric structures of the electrocatalysts under NRR conditions.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) has been regarded as one of the most promising alternative strategies for nitrogen fixation, and the design of efficient NRR catalysts is the critical factor. Herein, boron and sulfur co-doped mesoporous Rh film on Ni foam (B, S-mRh/NF) is developed for electrochemical ammonia synthesis. The boron and sulfur co-doping, the B, S-mRh/NF, can inhibit competitive hydrogen evolution reaction effectively. Owing to binder-free mesoporous structures, binder-free characteristic, and multicomponent alloy, the B, S-mRh/NF displays a high NH3 yield of 11.88 mg/h/cm(2) at -0.1 V and Faraday efficiency of 38.42% at -0.05 V in neutral electrolyte. This work offers an effective strategy for the rational design of nonmetal-doped porous Rh electrocatalysts with self-supported structure, which would be highly potential for the electrochemical ammonia synthesis. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Currently, industrial-scale NH3 production mainly relies on the energy-intensive and CO2-emitting Haber-Bosch process from atmospheric N-2 and fossil fuels. Electrochemical N-2 fixation offers an eco-friendly and sustainable alternative to ambient NH3 synthesis with the aid of efficient electrocatalysts for the N-2 reduction reaction (NRR). Here, a perylene-3,4,9,10-tetracarboxylic acid nanorod-reduced graphene oxide (PTCA-rGO) nanohybrid is proposed as a metal-free electrocatalyst to synergistically enhance N-2 reduction under ambient reaction conditions. In 0.1 M HCl, the PTCA-rGO hybrid provides a large NH3 yield of 24.7 g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) and a high faradaic efficiency of 6.9% at -0.50 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode, which are much superior to those of PTCA and rGO counterparts. This catalyst also shows a high electrochemical and structural stability. Density functional theory calculations suggest that the NRR over the hybrid catalyst takes place via both distal associative and partially alternative routes.
Nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is used to convert nitrogen (N-2) to ammonia (NH3) at ambient conditions. In general, acidic electrolytes are used to provide protons (H+), however, this leads to low selectivity due to H-2 formation via the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Recently, it is shown that Ti2N MXene is active and selective for NRR in acidic electrolyte, and operates through a Mars-van Krevelen (MvK) mechanism. However, the effect of pH on its catalytic performance is not well understood. Here, experiments are performed in varying pH values and relations are developed between pH and performance. The findings of this study indicate that the lowest NRR onset occurs within pH 2 systems exhibiting a nonlinear trend. However, as pH decreases, overpotential decreases, and kinetics increase due to H+ participation. FE values are found to increase as pH increased. These findings will be extended to other materials to design optimal electrolytic systems for NRR.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) is considered a promising alternative for green and sustainable ammonia (NH3) synthesis, which has, however, long suffered from low efficiency and poor selectivity. In this study, an isolated bimetallic Fe-Ru single atom catalyst was synthesized via anchoring the metal single atoms on nitrogen-doped carbon nanorod spheres. The catalyst exhibits an optimized faradaic efficiency of 29.3% along with an NH3 yield rate of 43.9 & mu;g h(-1) mg(-1) for the NRR under -0.2 V vs. RHE. Control experiments and isotopic labelling test confirm that the generated NH3 originates from the nitrogen (N-2) feeding gas. Computational analysis indicates that Fe acts as the active sites for nitrogen reduction. Impressively, an obvious synergistic effect exists between spatially isolated single atoms, which could be overlooked previously. The electronic structure of Fe sites is effectively influenced by Ru atoms, which results in the d-band center shift and stronger N-2 adsorption, further improving NRR performance.
The production of ammonia (NH3) in the industrial scale basically relies on the traditional technology of Haber-Bosch, which is operated under harsh conditions with high energy consumption and a huge number of greenhouse gas emissions. Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) is a promising route for artificial N-2-to-NH3 fixation with less energy consumption. However, an effective electrocatalyst, as a prerequisite of the NRR, is of significance. Here, we report that a spinel LiMn2O4 nanofiber acts as a noble-metal-free electrocatalyst for NH3 synthesis with excellent performance under ambient conditions. The electrocatalyst, which was tested in 0.1 M HCl, has an excellent Faradaic efficiency of 7.44% and a NH3 yield of 15.83 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) at -0.50 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. Moreover, it also possesses excellent electrochemical and structure stability.
The electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) holds great potential for green ammonia synthesis and has aroused interest of the scientific community. However, the restricted nitrogen supply at the reaction interface has always been the major unresolved issue, leaving the actual performance much to be desired. Herein, a nitrogen confining strategy achieved by plasma etching is proposed to address this challenge. A large number of voids can be in situ constructed in the basal plane of the catalyst upon plasma etching. The void-like defects would induce surface heterogeneity and effectively enhance the van der Waals interactions between the electrocatalyst and the nitrogen molecules, triggering directional nitrogen transfer toward the catalyst. The oncoming nitrogen nanobubbles can be effectively captured by the voids, providing abundant reactant supply and thus boosting the whole NRR process. As expected, the atomically dispersed metal-nitrogen-carbon catalyst with optimized plasma etching treatment delivers a superior ammonia yield rate of 35.24 & mu;g h-1 mg-1 and an outstanding Faradaic efficiency of 53.99 % at -0.3 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode. This work underscores the importance of abundant reactant supply and presents a versatile strategy for enhancing the overall performance of gas-involved electrochemical reactions.
Electrochemical nitrogen reduction reaction (eNRR) is a promising strategy for ammonia (NH3) synthesis owing to its features of sustainability and non-pollution. However, the nonpolar N-2 triple bond (N N) and competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) cause eNRR to be far away from practical applications. Hence, the multifunctional composite catalysts are designed to overcome the extreme conditions by the combinaton of surface engineering and structural design. Benefiting from the oxygen vacancy (O-v), phase heterogeneous interface and functional porous carbon matrix, O-v-TiO2@C/Cu possesses superior eNRR performance that NH3 yield and Faradaic efficiency achieve 16.10 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) at -0.60 V vs. RHE and 6.04% at -0.55 V vs. RHE, respectively. On the basis of the in-situ Raman spectra analysis, the characteristic peaks of O-Ti-O symmetric stretching vibration and phase heterogeneous structure gradually become weak under the various potentials electrolysis, which indicates that O-v and heterogeneous interface can serve as electron trappers and active sites to absorb N-2. The rational combination of surface engineering and composite structure design for creating active sites will open new avenues beyond the use of noble metal-based catalysts for eNRR.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction reaction (NRR) under ambient conditions offers us an environmentally friendly route for artificial synthesis of NH3. However, up to now, few noble-metal-free electrocatalysts with satisfactory catalytic activities have been explored. In this Letter, we demonstrate that MoN nanosheets array on carbon cloth (MoN NA/CC) acts as a high-performance NRR electrocatalyst toward NH3 electrosynthesis in 0.1 M HCl under ambient conditions. This catalyst achieves a large NH3 yield of 3.01 x 10(-10) mol s(-1) cm(-2) and a Faradaic efficiency of 1.15% at -0.3 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode with strong electrochemical durability and selectivity. Density functional theory calculations reveal that MoN NA/CC catalyzes NRR via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism.
Electrocatalytic dinitrogen fixation holds great promise as a sustainable technology for future NH3 synthesis, and developing electrocatalysts for the nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) with high activity and selectivity is highly desirable yet challenging. Herein, we reported that interface electronically coupled Sb/Nb2CTx could be a highly efficient NRR catalyst which delivered an NH3 yield of 49.8 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) with faradaic efficiencies as high as 27.3%, representing the highest NRR selectivity achieved in MXene-based catalysts. Density functional theory calculations revealed that the coupling of Sb and Nb2CTx could generate an electron-rich interface enabling the downshift of the p-band center of interfacial Sb atoms, which served as main active sites to promote the N-2 activation and hydrogenation while restricting the competing hydrogen evolution.
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) offers a suitable alternative to the conventional high energy intensive Haber-Bosch process for ambient ammonia (NH3) production without the release of greenhouse gases. Herein, a chemical reduction method is employed to effectively fabricate a hierarchical 3D nanostructure composed of CoFeB nanospheres precisely enveloped and interconnected with dynamically adaptable reduced graphene oxide (rGO) nanosheets for electrocatalytic NRR. Interconnected 3D CoFeB@ rGO nanostructures selectively reduced gaseous N2 to NH3 and demonstrated high Faradaic efficiency (31.6%) and NH3 yield rate (35 & mu;g h-1 mg-1) at - 0.2 V in 0.05 M H2SO4, comparable to various state-of-the-art electrocatalytic materials for ambient NRR. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations additionally verify that interconnected CoFeB nanospheres with mechanically flexible graphene nanosheets are beneficial in lowering the energy threshold for N2 adsorption and successive protonation. First example of CoFeB@rGO heterostructures as electrocatalysts for high efficiency, pH-universal NRR to NH3 synthesis is highlighted in this study.
Electroreduction of N-2 represents a promising technique for ambient NH3 synthesis, but exploring efficient electrocatalysts for nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) remains a key challenge. Herein, we reported our experimental and theoretical findings that FeMoO4 could be a new candidate for effective and durable NRR in neutral solution. The developed FeMoO4 nanorods exhibited a fascinating NRR activity with an NH3 yield of 45.8 mu g h(-1) mg(-1) (-0.5 V) and a Faradaic efficiency of 13.2% (-0.3 V). Mechanistic studies disclosed that Fe and Mo synergistically promoted the N-2 adsorption and accelerated the electron transfer on FeMoO4, whereas the unsaturated 3fold coordinated Mo (Mo-3c) sites served as the main active centers for stabilizing the key *N2H intermediate and reducing the reaction energy barrier.
Understanding catalytic-conversion determinants will blueprint an efficient electrocatalyst design for electrochemical nitrogen reduction. In metal chalcogenide-based catalysts, metalsite nitrogen adsorption initiates nitrogen fixation, and successive hydrogen supply from nearby chalcogen sites hydrogenates the nitrogen to ammonia. However, surface geometry-dependent reaction kinetics are rarely studied because the reaction is very fast. Here, we investigate the relationship between catalyst geometrical features and their electrochemical nitrogen reduction kinetics using surface atomic geometry-regulated copper sulfide (Cu1.81S) nanocatalysts with exposed (100)- and (010)-type facets for flat and zigzag planes, respectively. The exposed facet densities of the nanocatalysts are varied via their aspect ratios. Nanocrystals with highly exposed (010)-type surfaces exhibit the best nitrogen reduction kinetics. Density functional theory calculation reveals that the protruded Cu and S atomic arrangement on the zigzag (010)-type surface promotes N-2 adsorption and facilitates proton transfer from near the S site to *N-2 at the Cu site, thus fast- forwarding electrochemical nitrogen reduction.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction (ENR) offers a promising route for NH3 production. To promote this kinetically sluggish process, the design and development of electrocatalysts with high performance, good durability, low cost, and earth abundance are highly demanded. Here, we report a facile approach for the synthesis of metal-doped ultrafine W18O49 nanowires with significantly enhanced capability for electrocatalytic N-2 reduction to produce NH3 within a wide pH range. In particular, the Mo-doped W18O49 catalyst can reduce N-2 to NH3 with a faradaic efficiency approaching 12.1% at -0.2 V (versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, vs. RHE) and an NH3 yield rate of 5.3 mu g(NH3) h(-1) mgcat.(-1) at -0.5 V (vs. RHE) in 0.1 M Na2SO4, which is about two times higher than that of pristine W18O49. We find occurrence of strong electron transfer from Mo to W, which facilitates N-2 adsorption and activation, thus accelerating the ENR to generate NH3. This work provides a simple and effective method to modify metal oxides for efficient electrochemical N-2 fixation.
Electrochemical N-2 reduction emerges as a promising substitute to the Haber-Bosch process for ambient NH3 synthesis, but it is a tough task to develop efficient catalysts. Here, we propose a CeO2 nanoparticle decorated three-dimensional carbon skeleton derived from Juncus as an active and stable electrocatalyst for N-2-to-NH3 conversion. In N-2-saturated 0.1 M Na2SO4, this nanohybrid attains a large NH3 yield of 33.4 mu g h(-1) mg(cat.)(-1) with a faradaic efficiency of 6.1% at -0.6 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode. Furthermore, it also possesses favorable durability.
Nitrogen-doped graphene supported single metal atoms are expected to achieve high nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) performance via the electroreduction process. Based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the application of three pyrrolic-N doped graphene (pyrrolic-N-3-G) supported V-1, Cr-1, Mn-1, Fe-1, Nb-1, Mo-1, W-1 and Re-1 as electrocatalysts for NRR is evaluated from stability, limiting potential and ammonia selectivity points of view. Mo-1(W-1, Re-1)/pyrrolic-N-3-G are predicted to be potential candidates for NRR with high stability, less negative limiting potential (-0.49, -0.33 and -0.51 V) and high ammonia selectivity, which indicates that the catalytic performances are improved from both activity and selectivity aspects compared to the corresponding pyridine-N-3-G supported ones. The identified descriptors indicate that the accumulated charges on metal atoms and the adsorbed hydrogen atoms have considerable impacts on limiting potential and selectivity, respectively. It is also suggested that the NRR activity can be tuned by changing the coordination environment and the response of changing coordination environments differs according to the type of transition metals.
